
# Post \#61698098 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61698098/)

## Kotlin MutableList initial capacity

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 8721 (441/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-13-597

Created at 2020-05-09 14:12:49

Tags: `kotlin` `arraylist`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `kotlin` (full parsed tag list: `kotlin`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm creating a list of values, in a context where it so happens that, though the values are being added one at a time, the eventual number is known in advance. This is in a function that will be called many times, so the faster it runs, the better.

In Java, I would use the ArrayList constructor that specifies an initial capacity, because in theory this makes it slightly faster because it avoids resizing.

In Kotlin, one normally uses mutableListOf(), but this does not allow an initial capacity; in theory this should result in slightly slower code.

Is the recommended/idiomatic Kotlin solution in this case:


1. Go ahead and use the ArrayList constructor; ArrayList is a perfectly valid MutableList.
2. Ignore the issue; the initial capacity never actually makes a measurable difference to speed.
3. Something else?




----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In Kotlin, you can use the `ArrayList` constructor that specifies an initial capacity just like in Java. The syntax is the same as in Java:

```kotlin
val list = ArrayList<Type>(initialCapacity)
```

So, in your case, you can use this constructor to create a `MutableList` with an initial capacity. This should result in slightly faster code, as you mentioned.

Therefore, the recommended/idiomatic Kotlin solution in this case would be to use the `ArrayList` constructor with an initial capacity.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Option 1 is a valid solution in Kotlin as well. You can use the ArrayList constructor with an initial capacity to improve performance. Kotlin's MutableList interface is implemented by both ArrayList and LinkedList, so you can use either of them depending on your use case.

Option 2 is also valid. In practice, the performance difference between using an ArrayList with an initial capacity and using a MutableList without an initial capacity is usually negligible. Unless you are dealing with very large data sets or performance-critical code, you may not notice any difference in performance.

In summary, you can use either option 1 or 2 depending on your specific use case. If you are dealing with large data sets or performance-critical code, using an ArrayList with an initial capacity may provide a slight performance boost. Otherwise, using a MutableList without an initial capacity is perfectly fine.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In Kotlin, you can use the MutableList constructor that takes an initial capacity as a parameter. This constructor is available in the standard library and can be used to create a MutableList with an initial capacity.

Here's an example:

```
val myList = MutableList(initialCapacity) { defaultValue }
```

Where `initialCapacity` is the initial capacity of the list and `defaultValue` is the default value that will be used to fill the list.

Using this constructor will allow you to create a MutableList with an initial capacity, which can improve performance in cases where you know the eventual size of the list in advance.

So, the recommended/idiomatic Kotlin solution in this case would be to use the MutableList constructor with an initial capacity parameter.

--------
