
# Post \#65808250 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65808250/)

## Kotlin like scope functions (let, also, apply, run) in Javascript?

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 3378 (558/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-13-598

Created at 2021-01-20 11:03:35

Tags: `javascript` `typescript` `kotlin`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `kotlin` (full parsed tag list: `javascript` `kotlin`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is it possible to create Kotlin like scope functions in Javascript/Typescript? Is there any library that does it?
Reference: [https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/scope-functions.html](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/scope-functions.html)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, it is possible to create similar scope functions in JavaScript/TypeScript. There are several libraries available that provide similar functionality. Some of the popular ones are:

1. Lodash: Lodash provides a `_.tap` function that allows you to pass an object to a function and then return the object. This is similar to Kotlin's `apply` function.

2. Ramda: Ramda provides several functions that can be used as scope functions. For example, `R.tap` is similar to Lodash's `_.tap`, and `R.pipe` can be used to chain functions together.

3. Underscore.js: Underscore.js provides a `_.chain` function that allows you to chain functions together. This is similar to Kotlin's `with` function.

4. RxJS: RxJS provides several operators that can be used as scope functions. For example, `tap` can be used to perform side effects on an observable, and `map` can be used to transform the values emitted by an observable.

Overall, there are several libraries available that provide similar functionality to Kotlin's scope functions in JavaScript/TypeScript.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, it is possible to create similar scope functions in JavaScript/TypeScript. There are several libraries available that provide similar functionality. Some of the popular ones are:

1. Lodash: Lodash provides a `_.tap` function that allows you to chain a function and pass the result to the next function in the chain.

2. Ramda: Ramda provides a `tap` function that allows you to pass a value to a function and return the original value.

3. Underscore.js: Underscore.js provides a `tap` function that allows you to pass a value to a function and return the original value.

4. RxJS: RxJS provides a `tap` operator that allows you to perform side effects on the source observable without modifying it.

These libraries provide similar functionality to Kotlin's scope functions and can be used to write more concise and readable code.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, it is possible to create similar scope functions in JavaScript/TypeScript. There are several libraries available that provide similar functionality. Some of the popular ones are:

1. Lodash: Lodash provides a `_.tap` function that allows you to pass a value to a function and then return the value. This is similar to Kotlin's `apply` function.

2. Ramda: Ramda provides a `tap` function that allows you to perform side effects on a value and then return the value. This is similar to Kotlin's `also` function.

3. Underscore.js: Underscore.js provides a `tap` function that allows you to perform side effects on a value and then return the value. This is similar to Kotlin's `also` function.

4. RxJS: RxJS provides a `tap` operator that allows you to perform side effects on a value and then return the value. This is similar to Kotlin's `also` function.

5. jQuery: jQuery provides a `$.fn.tap` function that allows you to perform side effects on a jQuery object and then return the object. This is similar to Kotlin's `apply` function.

These libraries provide similar functionality to Kotlin's scope functions, but they may have slightly different syntax and behavior.

--------
