
# Post \#67699823 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67699823/)

## Module was compiled with an incompatible version of Kotlin. The binary version of its metadata is 1.5.1, expected version is 1.1.15

**Vote**: 241 (10/702) **Views**: 226513 (32/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-13-605

Created at 2021-05-26 06:45:07

Tags: `android` `android-studio` `kotlin` `stripe-payments`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `kotlin` (full parsed tag list: `kotlin`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

In [Stripe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stripe_(company)), my client wants email and cardholder name, but the Stripe payment UI doesn't provide that option in `com.stripe.android.view.CardMultilineWidget`. I wanted to give it a try with the latest stripe version,

1. I was using Stripe version (14.1.1). So I updated it to the latest one (16.8.0)
2. The build showed me the error that it doesn't take minSdkVersion 19. It requires 21 in manifest merger. So I updated minSdkVersion to 21.
3. I got caches/transforms-2/files-2.1/4541b0189187e0017d23bbb0afebd16a/jetified-kotlin-stdlib-common-1.5.0.jar!/META-INF/kotlin-stdlib-common.kotlin_module: Module was compiled with an incompatible version of Kotlin. The binary version of its metadata is 1.5.1, expected version is 1.1.15.


I tried changing the Gradle version, but I am still getting the same error. How can I solve the incompatible error and add the email and cardholder name in Stripe?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To solve the incompatible error, you need to make sure that all the Kotlin dependencies in your project are using the same version. In this case, it seems like the `kotlin-stdlib-common` library is using a different version than the rest of your project. You can try adding the following code to your app-level `build.gradle` file to force all Kotlin dependencies to use the same version:

```
configurations.all {
    resolutionStrategy {
        force "org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-stdlib-common:1.5.0"
    }
}
```

This will force all Kotlin dependencies to use version 1.5.0 of `kotlin-stdlib-common`.

To add the email and cardholder name in Stripe, you can use the `CardInputWidget` instead of `CardMultilineWidget`. The `CardInputWidget` allows you to add custom fields, including email and cardholder name. Here's an example of how to use it:

```
<com.stripe.android.view.CardInputWidget
    android:id="@+id/card_input_widget"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    app:shouldShowPostalCode="false"
    app:customStripeFields="@array/custom_stripe_fields" />
```

In your `strings.xml` file, you can define the custom fields:

```
<string-array name="custom_stripe_fields">
    <item>cardholderName</item>
    <item>email</item>
</string-array>
```

Then, in your code, you can retrieve the values of these fields like this:

```
val cardInputWidget = findViewById<CardInputWidget>(R.id.card_input_widget)
val card = cardInputWidget.card
val cardholderName = card.cardholderName
val email = card.email
```

Note that you will also need to update your Stripe API calls to include the email and cardholder name fields.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To solve the incompatible error, you need to make sure that all the dependencies in your project are compatible with the Kotlin version you are using. In this case, the error message indicates that the Kotlin version used by one of the dependencies is not compatible with the Kotlin version used by your project.

To fix this, you can try updating the Kotlin version in your project to match the version used by the dependency. In this case, the binary version of the metadata is 1.5.1, so you can try updating your Kotlin version to 1.5.1.

To add the email and cardholder name in Stripe, you can use the `CardInputWidget` instead of the `CardMultilineWidget`. The `CardInputWidget` provides an option to enter the cardholder name and email. You can add the `CardInputWidget` to your layout file and use it to collect the required information.

Here's an example of how to use the `CardInputWidget` to collect the email and cardholder name:

1. Add the `CardInputWidget` to your layout file:

```
<com.stripe.android.view.CardInputWidget
    android:id="@+id/card_input_widget"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    app:shouldShowPostalCode="false"
    app:shouldShowCardholderName="true"
    app:shouldShowError="true"
    app:shouldShowExpiry="true"
    app:shouldShowScanCard="false"
    app:shouldShowPostalCode="false"
    app:shouldShowPostalCode="false" />
```

2. In your activity or fragment, get a reference to the `CardInputWidget` and use it to collect the required information:

```
val cardInputWidget = findViewById<CardInputWidget>(R.id.card_input_widget)

val cardParams = cardInputWidget.cardParams
cardParams.email = "user@example.com"
cardParams.name = "John Doe"

// Use the cardParams to create a Stripe token or payment method
```

Note that you will need to replace `user@example.com` and `John Doe` with the actual email and cardholder name entered by the user. You can then use the `cardParams` object to create a Stripe token or payment method as required.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To solve the incompatible error, you need to make sure that all the Kotlin dependencies in your project are using the same version of Kotlin. In this case, it seems like the `kotlin-stdlib-common` library is using a different version of Kotlin than the rest of your project.

To fix this, you can try adding the following lines to your `build.gradle` file:

```
configurations.all {
    resolutionStrategy {
        force 'org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-stdlib-common:1.5.0'
    }
}
```

This will force all dependencies to use version 1.5.0 of the `kotlin-stdlib-common` library.

As for adding the email and cardholder name in Stripe, you can use the `CardInputWidget` instead of the `CardMultilineWidget`. The `CardInputWidget` allows you to add custom fields for the email and cardholder name. Here's an example:

```
<com.stripe.android.view.CardInputWidget
    android:id="@+id/card_input_widget"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    app:shouldShowPostalCode="false"
    app:customStripeFields="@array/custom_stripe_fields" />
```

In your `strings.xml` file, you can define the custom fields like this:

```
<string-array name="custom_stripe_fields">
    <item>cardholderName</item>
    <item>email</item>
</string-array>
```

This will add two custom fields for the cardholder name and email in the `CardInputWidget`. You can then retrieve the values of these fields using the `CardInputWidget.getCard()` method.

--------
