
# Post \#65808250 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65808250/)

## Kotlin like scope functions (let, also, apply, run) in Javascript?

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 3378 (558/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-13-598

Created at 2021-01-20 11:03:35

Tags: `javascript` `typescript` `kotlin`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `kotlin` (full parsed tag list: `javascript` `kotlin`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is it possible to create Kotlin like scope functions in Javascript/Typescript? Is there any library that does it?
Reference: [https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/scope-functions.html](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/scope-functions.html)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, it is possible to create Kotlin-like scope functions in JavaScript/TypeScript. However, there's no direct equivalent in JavaScript/TypeScript for Kotlin's scope functions like `let`, `run`, `with`, `apply`, and `also`. 

JavaScript/TypeScript has its own set of tools and idioms for handling similar situations. For example, you can use JavaScript's `this` keyword or arrow functions to control the scope and context of your functions. 

Here's an example of how you might implement a Kotlin-like `apply` function in JavaScript:

```javascript
function apply(obj, action) {
    action(obj);
    return obj;
}

let obj = { a: 1, b: 2 };

apply(obj, (obj) => {
    obj.a = 3;
    obj.b = 4;
});

console.log(obj);  // { a: 3, b: 4 }
```

As for libraries, there's no specific library that provides Kotlin-like scope functions in JavaScript/TypeScript. However, you can use libraries like lodash or underscore.js which provide a set of utility functions for working with objects and collections, some of which can be used to achieve similar results.

Remember that JavaScript/TypeScript and Kotlin are different languages with different idioms and best practices. While you can often translate concepts from one language to another, it's usually best to embrace the idioms of the language you're working with.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In JavaScript/TypeScript, there are no built-in functions that exactly match the behavior of Kotlin's scope functions like `let`, `run`, `with`, `apply`, and `also`. However, you can emulate some of their behavior using JavaScript's existing features and syntax.

For example, Kotlin's `let` function can be emulated using JavaScript's immediately invoked function expressions (IIFE):

```javascript
// Kotlin
val result = someObject.let { it.doSomething() }

// JavaScript
const result = ((it) => it.doSomething())(someObject);
```

Kotlin's `apply` function can be emulated using JavaScript's `Object.assign` method:

```javascript
// Kotlin
val result = someObject.apply { property = newValue }

// JavaScript
const result = Object.assign(someObject, { property: newValue });
```

As for libraries, I'm not aware of any that provide these exact functions. However, you can create your own utility functions to mimic this behavior if you find it useful.

Remember that JavaScript and Kotlin are different languages with different idioms and best practices. What works well in Kotlin might not work as well in JavaScript, and vice versa. It's usually best to write JavaScript in a way that's idiomatic to JavaScript, rather than trying to make it behave like another language.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Kotlin's scope functions are a powerful feature that allow you to execute a block of code within the context of an object. JavaScript/TypeScript doesn't have an exact equivalent, but you can achieve similar functionality using some of its features.

For example, you can use the `this` keyword in JavaScript/TypeScript to refer to the current object within a method. This is similar to how `this` is used in Kotlin's `apply` and `also` functions.

Here's an example of how you might use `this` in JavaScript/TypeScript:

```javascript
class MyClass {
  constructor() {
    this.myProperty = 'Hello, world!';
  }

  myMethod() {
    console.log(this.myProperty);  // Prints: Hello, world!
  }
}

const myObject = new MyClass();
myObject.myMethod();
```

In this example, `this.myProperty` within `myMethod` refers to `myProperty` of `myObject`.

For something like Kotlin's `let` function, you can use JavaScript/TypeScript's arrow functions, which allow you to define a function with a different `this` context. Here's an example:

```javascript
const myObject = {
  myProperty: 'Hello, world!',
};

const myFunction = () => {
  console.log(this.myProperty);  // Prints: Hello, world!
};

myFunction.call(myObject);
```

In this example, `this.myProperty` within `myFunction` refers to `myProperty` of `myObject` because we're calling `myFunction` with `myObject` as the `this` context.

As for libraries, there doesn't seem to be a widely used library that provides Kotlin-like scope functions in JavaScript/TypeScript. However, you can achieve similar functionality using the features built into the language itself, as shown above.

--------
