
# Post \#64925126 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64925126/)

## How to use @Parcelize now that kotlin-android-extensions is being deprecated?

**Vote**: 104 (57/702) **Views**: 74908 (115/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-13-601

Created at 2020-11-20 07:02:03

Tags: `android` `kotlin` `annotations` `parcelable`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `kotlin` (full parsed tag list: `kotlin`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How do I replace `annotation class Parcelize` from `package kotlinx.android.parcel` with `@Parcelize` which is not coming from the `kotlin-android-extensions` plugin?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `kotlin-android-extensions` plugin is deprecated and you should replace it with the `kotlin-parcelize` plugin for `@Parcelize`.

Here are the steps to do it:

1. Remove `kotlin-android-extensions` from your `build.gradle` file.

```groovy
// Remove this line
apply plugin: 'kotlin-android-extensions'
```

2. Add `kotlin-parcelize` to your `build.gradle` file.

```groovy
// Add this line
apply plugin: 'kotlin-parcelize'
```

3. Replace the import statement in your Kotlin files.

```kotlin
// Replace this line
import kotlinx.android.parcel.Parcelize

// With this line
import kotlinx.parcelize.Parcelize
```

4. Sync your project with Gradle files.

After these steps, `@Parcelize` should now be coming from the `kotlin-parcelize` plugin.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `@Parcelize` annotation is now part of `kotlinx.parcelize` package in Kotlin 1.4.20 and above. The `kotlin-android-extensions` plugin is deprecated and is replaced by `kotlin-parcelize` plugin.

Here are the steps to replace `annotation class Parcelize` from `package kotlinx.android.parcel` with `@Parcelize` which is not coming from the `kotlin-android-extensions` plugin:

1. First, you need to remove `kotlin-android-extensions` from your `build.gradle` (Module: app) file:

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'com.android.application'
    id 'kotlin-android'
    // Remove this line
    // id 'kotlin-android-extensions'
}
```

2. Then, you need to add `kotlin-parcelize` plugin to your `build.gradle` (Module: app) file:

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'com.android.application'
    id 'kotlin-android'
    id 'kotlin-parcelize'
}
```

3. Now, you can replace the import statement in your Kotlin files:

Replace this line:

```kotlin
import kotlinx.android.parcel.Parcelize
```

with this line:

```kotlin
import kotlinx.parcelize.Parcelize
```

4. Finally, you need to rebuild your project. If there are no other issues, your project should now build successfully with the new `@Parcelize` annotation.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `kotlin-android-extensions` plugin is deprecated. If you want to use `@Parcelize`, you should use the `kotlin-parcelize` plugin instead.

Here are the steps to replace `annotation class Parcelize` from `package kotlinx.android.parcel` with `@Parcelize` from the `kotlin-parcelize` plugin:

1. Remove `kotlin-android-extensions` from your `build.gradle` file.

2. Add `kotlin-parcelize` to your `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
plugins {
    id 'com.android.application'
    id 'kotlin-android'
    id 'kotlin-parcelize'
}
```

3. Replace the import statement in your Kotlin files:

Replace this:

```kotlin
import kotlinx.android.parcel.Parcelize
```

with this:

```kotlin
import kotlinx.parcelize.Parcelize
```

4. Now you can use `@Parcelize` annotation:

```kotlin
@Parcelize
data class User(val firstName: String, val lastName: String) : Parcelable
```

Remember to rebuild your project after making these changes.

--------
