
# Post \#67725347 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67725347/)

## Jacoco fails on Gradle 7.0.2 and Kotlin 1.5.10

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 6280 (498/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-13-587

Created at 2021-05-27 15:28:32

Tags: `android` `android-studio` `kotlin` `gradle` `jacoco`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `kotlin` (full parsed tag list: `kotlin`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Today I updated gradle and kotlin dependencies in android studio.
The new versions are these:
```
kotlin_version = "1.5.10"
...
jacoco {
    toolVersion = "0.8.6"
}
...
distributionUrl=https\://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-7.0.2-all.zip
```

The test coverage report task fails with the following error:
```
2021-05-27T16:57:49.150+0200 [DEBUG] [org.gradle.api.internal.tasks.execution.ExecuteActionsTaskExecuter] Executing actions for task ':consumerkit:testDebugUnitTestCoverage'.
2021-05-27T16:57:49.304+0200 [DEBUG] [org.codehaus.groovy.vmplugin.VMPluginFactory] Trying to create VM plugin `org.codehaus.groovy.vmplugin.v9.Java9` by checking `java.lang.Module`, but failed:
java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: java.lang.Module
        at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(URLClassLoader.java:382)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:424)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:357)
        at org.codehaus.groovy.vmplugin.VMPluginFactory.lambda$createPlugin$0(VMPluginFactory.java:61)
        at java.security.AccessController.doPrivileged(Native Method)
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error is caused by the Jacoco plugin trying to use a version of Groovy that is not compatible with the Java version being used. 

To fix this issue, you can try updating the Jacoco plugin to a version that is compatible with the Java version being used. You can also try updating the Groovy version being used by the Jacoco plugin.

You can update the Jacoco plugin by changing the `toolVersion` property in your `build.gradle` file to a version that is compatible with the Java version being used. For example, if you are using Java 8, you can try using Jacoco version 0.8.7 or higher.

```
jacoco {
    toolVersion = "0.8.7"
}
```

If updating the Jacoco plugin does not work, you can try updating the Groovy version being used by the Jacoco plugin. You can do this by adding the following to your `build.gradle` file:

```
configurations.all {
    resolutionStrategy {
        force 'org.codehaus.groovy:groovy-all:3.0.9'
    }
}
```

This will force the Jacoco plugin to use Groovy version 3.0.9, which is compatible with Java 8 and higher.

After making these changes, try running the test coverage report task again to see if the issue has been resolved.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error occurs because the version of Jacoco you are using is not compatible with the version of Java you are using. Jacoco 0.8.6 requires Java 9 or higher, but it seems that your project is using an older version of Java.

To fix this issue, you can either upgrade your Java version to Java 9 or higher, or downgrade your Jacoco version to a version that is compatible with your current Java version.

You can also try adding the following lines to your build.gradle file to force the use of a specific Java version:

```
compileTestJava {
    options.compilerArgs << "-source" << "1.8"
    options.compilerArgs << "-target" << "1.8"
}
```

This will force the use of Java 8 for your test code, which should be compatible with Jacoco 0.8.6.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error is caused by the Jacoco plugin version you are using. Jacoco 0.8.6 is not compatible with Java 9 or higher, which is required by the Kotlin 1.5.10 version you are using.

To fix this issue, you can either downgrade your Kotlin version to a lower version that is compatible with Jacoco 0.8.6 or upgrade your Jacoco version to a version that is compatible with Java 9 or higher.

If you choose to upgrade your Jacoco version, you can try using Jacoco 0.8.7 or higher, which should be compatible with Java 9 or higher. You can update your build.gradle file with the following code:

```
jacoco {
    toolVersion = "0.8.7"
}
```

After updating the Jacoco version, try running the test coverage report task again. It should work without any errors.

--------
