
# Post \#56685964 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56685964/)

## SwiftUI @Binding Initialize

**Vote**: 97 (62/702) **Views**: 41812 (190/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-618

Created at 2019-06-20 12:25:34

Tags: `ios` `swift` `swiftui` `ios13`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Been playing around with SwiftUI and understood the concept of `BindableObjects` etc so far (at least I hope I do). 

I bumped into a stupid problem I can't seem to find an answer for: 
How do you initialize a `@Binding` variable?

I have the following code:

```
struct LoggedInView : View {

    @Binding var dismissView: Bool

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            Text("Hello World")
        }
    }
}
```


In my preview code, I want to pass that parameter of type `Binding<Bool>`:

```
#if DEBUG
struct LoggedInView_Previews : PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        LoggedInView(dismissView: **Binding<Bool>**)
    }
}
#endif
```


How would I go an initialize it? tried:

```
Binding<Bool>.init(false)
Binding<Bool>(false)
```


Or even:

```
@Binding var dismissView: Bool = false
```


But none worked... any ideas?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In SwiftUI, `@Binding` is used to create a two-way binding between a property that stores data, and a view that displays and changes the data. A binding connects a property to a source of truth stored elsewhere, instead of storing data directly. 

However, you cannot directly initialize a `@Binding` property. It needs to be passed from the parent view. 

In your case, you can use `constant` to create a binding for the preview. Here's how you can do it:

```swift
#if DEBUG
struct LoggedInView_Previews : PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        LoggedInView(dismissView: .constant(false))
    }
}
#endif
```

The `.constant(false)` creates a binding to a constant value. This is useful in previews and other places where you need to satisfy a binding requirement in your code, but don’t have a source of truth for the data you can use.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In SwiftUI, `@Binding` is used to create a two-way binding between a property that stores data, and a view that displays and changes the data. It's important to note that `@Binding` does not store the data itself, instead, it provides a reference to data stored elsewhere.

To initialize a `@Binding` variable, you need to pass a `Binding<Bool>` object. You can create a `Binding<Bool>` object using the `.constant(_:)` method, which creates a binding that ignores any subsequent changes.

Here's how you can do it:

```swift
#if DEBUG
struct LoggedInView_Previews : PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        LoggedInView(dismissView: .constant(false))
    }
}
#endif
```

In this case, `.constant(false)` creates a `Binding<Bool>` that always returns `false` when read, and does nothing when written. This is useful in previews and other places where you need to satisfy a `@Binding` requirement but don’t have a source of truth for the data you can use.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In SwiftUI, you can't directly initialize a `@Binding` variable. `@Binding` is used to create a two-way connection between a variable that's stored somewhere else.

However, in your preview, you can use the `.constant()` function to create a binding to a constant value. This is useful in previews and other places where you don’t have a mutable value to bind to.

Here is how you can do it:

```swift
#if DEBUG
struct LoggedInView_Previews : PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        LoggedInView(dismissView: .constant(false))
    }
}
#endif
```

In this case, `.constant(false)` creates a binding to the constant value `false`. This is useful in previews and other places where you don’t have a mutable value to bind to.

--------
