
# Post \#61116011 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61116011/)

## Command PhaseScriptExecution failed with a nonzero exit code Xcode 11.3.1

**Vote**: 5 (499/702) **Views**: 14058 (370/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-624

Created at 2020-04-09 07:28:50

Tags: `ios` `swift` `xcode` `swiftlint` `xcode11.3`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am getting `Command PhaseScriptExecution failed with a nonzero exit code` error frequently, The below workarounds which I followed but didn't help me.

: Keychain Access -> Right-click on login -> Lock & unlock again -> Clean Xcode project ->Make build again

 Build Phases -> Targets -> Embedded pods frameworks
                 

: Deleting the derived data

: Clean project and building again.

Find the below log

```
Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/CompanyName-
bofekdusvsoagmhinknpcoyjfyoj/Build/Intermediates.noindex/CompanyName.build/Debug-
iphonesimulator/company-iOS.build/Script-2AD2DCB21F0D6514005CEF4D.sh: line 2: 20846 
Segmentationfault: 11  ../BuildSupport/swift_lint_check.sh
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are seeing is related to a script that is failing during the build process. In this case, it looks like the script is related to a Swift lint check. Here are a few things you can try to resolve the issue:

1. Check the script: Take a look at the script that is failing (`../BuildSupport/swift_lint_check.sh`) and see if you can identify any issues with it. If you are not familiar with the script, you may want to reach out to the developer who wrote it for assistance.

2. Update Xcode: Make sure you are using the latest version of Xcode. You can check for updates in the App Store or by going to Xcode -> Preferences -> Updates.

3. Clean the build folder: In addition to cleaning the project, you can also try cleaning the build folder. To do this, hold down the Option key while selecting Product -> Clean Build Folder.

4. Disable the script: If you are not using the Swift lint check script, you can try disabling it by removing it from the Build Phases -> Run Script section of your project.

5. Reset your keychain: If none of the above solutions work, you can try resetting your keychain. To do this, go to Keychain Access -> Preferences -> Reset My Default Keychain. Note that this will delete all of your saved passwords and certificates, so make sure you have backups before proceeding.

Hopefully one of these solutions will help you resolve the issue. If not, you may want to reach out to Apple Developer Support for further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you provided indicates that there is a problem with the script `swift_lint_check.sh`. This script is likely being called during the build process and is causing the build to fail.

Here are a few things you can try to resolve the issue:

1. Check the script for errors: Open the script `swift_lint_check.sh` and check for any syntax errors or other issues. Fix any errors you find and try building again.

2. Update your dependencies: It's possible that the issue is caused by a dependency that is out of date or incompatible with your current setup. Try updating your dependencies and see if that resolves the issue.

3. Disable the script: If you are not using the script `swift_lint_check.sh`, you can try disabling it. To do this, go to your project settings, select the target that is failing to build, and go to the "Build Phases" tab. Look for the script in the list of build phases and uncheck the box next to it to disable it.

4. Contact the script author: If none of the above solutions work, you may need to contact the author of the script `swift_lint_check.sh` for further assistance. They may be able to help you identify and resolve the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you provided indicates that there is a problem with the script `swift_lint_check.sh`. This script is likely being executed as part of a build phase in your Xcode project.

Here are some steps you can take to troubleshoot this issue:

1. Check the script for errors: Open the script `swift_lint_check.sh` and make sure there are no syntax errors or other issues. You can also try running the script manually from the command line to see if it produces any errors.

2. Check the build phase: Make sure that the build phase that is running the script is configured correctly. Check the input and output files, as well as any other settings that may be relevant.

3. Check the environment: Make sure that the environment in which the script is running is set up correctly. Check that any required dependencies are installed and that the correct version of Swift is being used.

4. Try running the script outside of Xcode: If you are still having trouble, try running the script outside of Xcode to see if it produces any errors. This can help you isolate the problem and determine if it is related to Xcode or the script itself.

5. Contact the script author: If you are still unable to resolve the issue, consider contacting the author of the script for assistance. They may be able to provide additional guidance or help you troubleshoot the problem.

--------
