
# Post \#56678354 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56678354/)

## Xcode 11 beta swift ui preview not showing

**Vote**: 73 (86/702) **Views**: 55319 (152/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-614

Created at 2019-06-20 02:56:44

Tags: `swift` `xcode` `swiftui`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Just playing with Swift UI basic app and the preview canvas is not showing even though I'm in canvas mode. App runs, and I have this little snippet what am I missing?

```
#if DEBUG
struct ContentView_Previews : PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
       ContentView()
    }
}
#endif
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It looks like you have the correct code for previewing your `ContentView` in the canvas. However, make sure that you have selected the preview canvas in Xcode. You can do this by clicking on the "Resume" button in the top left corner of the Xcode window, or by pressing "Command + Option + P" on your keyboard. If the canvas still doesn't show up, try cleaning your project and rebuilding it. You can do this by going to "Product" in the menu bar and selecting "Clean Build Folder", then rebuilding your project by pressing "Command + B" on your keyboard.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like you have the correct code for previewing your `ContentView` in the canvas. However, there are a few things you can check to make sure the preview is working properly:

1. Make sure you have selected the preview canvas by clicking on the "Resume" button in the top left corner of Xcode's editor window.

2. Check that the preview canvas is visible by clicking on the "Editor" menu in Xcode's menu bar and selecting "Canvas" from the dropdown menu.

3. Verify that your `ContentView` is being displayed in the preview canvas by looking for a small thumbnail of your app's UI in the top right corner of the canvas.

4. If none of the above steps work, try cleaning your project by clicking on the "Product" menu in Xcode's menu bar and selecting "Clean Build Folder". Then, try rebuilding your project and previewing your `ContentView` again.

If you are still having trouble getting the preview canvas to display, please let me know and I can help you troubleshoot further.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like you have the correct code for previewing your `ContentView` in the canvas. However, there are a few things you can try to troubleshoot why the preview canvas is not showing:

1. Make sure you have selected the preview canvas by clicking on the "Resume" button in the Xcode toolbar. The preview canvas should appear on the right side of the Xcode window.

2. Check that you have the latest version of Xcode installed. Sometimes, Xcode updates can fix issues with the preview canvas.

3. Try cleaning your project by going to "Product" in the Xcode menu bar and selecting "Clean Build Folder". Then, try running the preview canvas again.

4. If none of the above solutions work, try restarting Xcode or your computer.

Hopefully, one of these solutions will help you get the preview canvas working again.

--------
