
# Post \#52387452 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52387452/)

## Command CompileSwift failed with a nonzero exit code in Xcode 10

**Vote**: 192 (20/702) **Views**: 288757 (23/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-623

Created at 2018-09-18 13:13:43

Tags: `ios` `swift` `xcode` `swift4` `xcode10`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After updating to the latest version of Xcode at the moment (version 10.0) the project is unable to build because it found some errors regarding some "Command CompileSwift failed with a nonzero exit code" error.

They appear in most of the Pods (I use CocoaPods) I use inside my project.
I have tried updating the pod version and the pods to the latest version available, but the problem is still there.
I have searched a lot through the web and there is very little information regarding this issue.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

This error can be caused by a variety of issues, but here are some common solutions that you can try:

1. **Clean the project**: In Xcode, select `Product > Clean` from the menu. Then try to build the project again.

2. **Delete Derived Data**: Go to `Window > Organizer > Projects`, select your project, and click `Delete` next to `Derived Data`. Then try to build the project again.

3. **Check Swift Version**: Make sure that all your Pods are compatible with the Swift version you are using. You can specify the Swift version for each Pod in the Podfile. For example:

    ```ruby
    post_install do |installer|
        installer.pods_project.targets.each do |target|
            target.build_configurations.each do |config|
                config.build_settings['SWIFT_VERSION'] = '4.2' # or '5.0', '5.1', etc.
            end
        end
    end
    ```

4. **Update CocoaPods**: Make sure you are using the latest version of CocoaPods. You can update it by running `sudo gem install cocoapods` in the terminal.

5. **Reinstall Pods**: Try deleting the `Podfile.lock` file and the `Pods` directory, then run `pod install` again.

6. **Check for Compiler Errors**: The "Command CompileSwift failed with a nonzero exit code" error can also be caused by compiler errors in your Swift code. Check the error details in Xcode to see if there are any specific Swift compiler errors that you can fix.

If none of these solutions work, you might need to downgrade to a previous version of Xcode that is known to work with your project and Pods.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

This issue can be caused by various reasons, but here are some steps you can try to resolve it:

1. **Clean the project**: In Xcode, go to `Product -> Clean Build Folder`. This will remove all the build files and force Xcode to recompile everything.

2. **Delete Derived Data**: Go to `Window -> Organizer -> Projects -> Your Project -> Delete Derived Data`. Derived Data includes all the indexes, build products, and logs. Sometimes, these files can become corrupted and cause issues.

3. **Update CocoaPods**: Make sure you're using the latest version of CocoaPods. You can update it by running `sudo gem install cocoapods` in the terminal.

4. **Reinstall Pods**: Delete the `Pods` directory, `Podfile.lock`, and `YourProject.xcworkspace`. Then run `pod install` again.

5. **Check Swift Version**: Make sure all your Pods are compatible with the Swift version you're using. You can specify the Swift version for each Pod in the `Podfile` like this:
    ```
    post_install do |installer|
        installer.pods_project.targets.each do |target|
            target.build_configurations.each do |config|
                config.build_settings['SWIFT_VERSION'] = '5.0'
            end
        end
    end
    ```
    Replace '5.0' with your Swift version.

6. **Check for Swift Compiler - Language settings**: Go to `Build Settings -> Swift Compiler - Language` and check if the `Swift Language Version` is set correctly.

7. **Check for Errors in Your Code**: Sometimes, the error can be caused by your own code. Check if there are any Swift files with errors.

If none of the above solutions work, it might be a bug in Xcode 10.0. You can report it to Apple through their bug reporting system.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

This issue can be caused by a variety of reasons, but here are some possible solutions that you can try:

1. Clean Build Folder: In Xcode, go to "Product" -> "Clean Build Folder". This will clean up any old build files that might be causing the issue.

2. Delete Derived Data: Go to "Preferences" -> "Locations" -> "Derived Data". Delete the derived data for your project. This will force Xcode to rebuild everything from scratch.

3. Update Swift Version: Check if your Pods are compatible with the Swift version you're using. You might need to update the Swift version in your Podfile or in the build settings of your Pods.

4. Check for Swift Compiler - Language settings: Go to "Build Settings" -> "Swift Compiler - Language" and check if the "Swift Language Version" is correct. If not, change it to the correct version.

5. Reinstall Pods: Try deleting the Podfile.lock file and the Pods folder, then run `pod install` again.

6. Check for Errors in Your Code: Sometimes, the error might be in your code. Check if there are any syntax errors, especially in the files mentioned in the error message.

7. Update Xcode: Sometimes, updating Xcode to the latest version can solve the issue. Go to the App Store and check if there are any updates available for Xcode.

Remember to always backup your project before making any changes. If none of these solutions work, you might need to consider downgrading Xcode to a previous version that worked with your project.

--------
