
# Post \#65384298 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65384298/)

## Xcode 12.3 SwiftUI Preview 1 of "Content View Previews" not found in any targets

**Vote**: 19 (269/702) **Views**: 6332 (496/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-613

Created at 2020-12-20 20:05:54

Tags: `xcode` `swiftui`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I see others post with issues using SwiftUI Previews in Xcode 11 and 12, but have not seen this issue elsewhere.
Older project that worked in Xcode 11, loaded in Xcode 12, fails to launch the preview, no matter how simple the Preview content.
Actual preview code:
```
struct ContentView_Previews: PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        Text("I heart Xcode")
            .previewDevice("iPhone 11")
    }
}
```

After clicking "Resume" or "Try Again":
> CouldNotFindInputNodeInBuiltGraphError<XcodeGraphSource,
PreviewInstance>: Preview 1 of "Content View Previews" not found in
any targetsPreview 1 of "Content View Previews" must belong to at least one
target in the current scheme in order to use previewsElement: PreviewInstance(destinationDescription:
UVPreviewPipeline.AnyPreviewDestinationDescription(storage:
UVPreviewPipeline.(unknown context at
$1382211e0).AnyPreviewDestinationDescriptionBoxImpl<UVIntegration.SimulatorPreviewDestinationDescription>),
previewIdentity: UVPreviewPipeline.PreviewIdentity(identifier:
ContentView_Previews[0], description: contentType: Element
contextType: application device: iPhone 11 index: 0 layout: device
supportsLive: true supportsOnDevice: true), variant: nil,
variantedIdentifier: ContentView_Previews[0], identifier:
AnyHashable(ContentView_Previews[0]))
I only have one target, same as before, with no special configuration. I have tried reloading Xcode as well as copying all sources files to a new directory (saw that one somewhere).
Anyone else able to parse this error message or make a recommendation for how to fix SwiftUI previews?
Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is a bit cryptic, but it's essentially saying that Xcode can't find the SwiftUI preview you're trying to display. This could be due to a number of reasons, but here are a few things you can try:

1. **Clean your project**: Sometimes Xcode can get confused with old build artifacts. You can clean your project by going to `Product > Clean Build Folder` or by pressing `Shift + Command + K`.

2. **Check your scheme**: Make sure that your scheme is set up correctly. Go to `Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme` and make sure that your target is selected in the `Build` section.

3. **Check your target membership**: Make sure that the file containing your SwiftUI preview is included in your target. You can do this by selecting the file in the Project Navigator and checking the `Target Membership` section in the File Inspector.

4. **Restart Xcode**: Sometimes Xcode can get into a weird state and a simple restart can fix the issue.

5. **Update Xcode**: If you're not already on the latest version of Xcode, it might be worth updating. Apple has made a lot of improvements to SwiftUI and its previews in recent updates.

6. **Recreate the SwiftUI preview**: If all else fails, you might want to try recreating the SwiftUI preview. Delete the existing preview and create a new one.

If none of these suggestions work, it might be worth posting on the Apple Developer Forums or filing a bug with Apple. It's possible that this is a bug in Xcode itself.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

This error message is indicating that Xcode is having trouble finding the preview instance for your ContentView_Previews. This could be due to a number of reasons, but here are a few things you can try:

1. **Clean the build folder**: Sometimes, Xcode can get confused with old build artifacts. You can clean the build folder by going to `Product > Clean Build Folder` or by pressing `Shift + Command + K`.

2. **Restart Xcode**: This might seem obvious, but sometimes, simply restarting Xcode can fix the issue.

3. **Check your scheme settings**: Make sure that your scheme is set up correctly. Go to `Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme` and make sure that the correct target is selected.

4. **Check your preview code**: Make sure that your preview code is correct and that it's inside the correct file. In your case, it should be inside `ContentView.swift`.

5. **Update your Xcode**: If you're not using the latest version of Xcode, consider updating it. Apple frequently releases updates that fix bugs and improve performance.

6. **Recreate the file**: If none of the above solutions work, try recreating the file where your preview code is located. There might be some hidden issues that are causing the problem.

If none of these solutions work, it might be a bug with Xcode itself. In that case, consider filing a bug report with Apple.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

This error message is indicating that Xcode can't find the preview you're trying to display in any of the targets in your current scheme. This could be due to a variety of reasons, but here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. **Clean the build folder**: You can do this by going to `Product > Clean Build Folder` or by pressing `Shift + Command + K`. This will remove all the compiled files and force Xcode to rebuild everything.

2. **Check your target membership**: Make sure that the file containing your preview is included in your target. You can do this by selecting the file in the Project Navigator and checking the Target Membership in the File Inspector.

3. **Restart Xcode and your computer**: Sometimes, Xcode can get into a weird state where it doesn't work properly. Restarting Xcode and your computer can often resolve these issues.

4. **Update Xcode**: If you're not already on the latest version of Xcode, updating might resolve this issue. Apple frequently releases updates to Xcode that fix bugs and improve stability.

5. **Check your scheme**: Make sure that your scheme is set up correctly. You can do this by going to `Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme`. Make sure that the correct target is selected and that the Build Configuration is set to Debug.

6. **Recreate the preview**: If none of the above solutions work, you can try recreating the preview. Delete the existing preview and create a new one.

If none of these solutions work, it might be a bug in Xcode. In that case, you should report it to Apple through their bug reporting system.

--------
