
# Post \#62588015 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62588015/)

## Get the current scroll position of a SwiftUI ScrollView

**Vote**: 42 (147/702) **Views**: 19284 (309/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-615

Created at 2020-06-26 04:25:07

Tags: `ios` `swift` `swiftui` `xcode12`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

With the new `ScrollViewReader`, it seems possible to set the scroll offset programmatically.
But I was wondering if it is also possible to  the current scroll position?
It seems like the `ScrollViewProxy` only comes with the `scrollTo` method, allowing us to set the offset.
Thanks!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Unfortunately, as of now, SwiftUI does not provide a built-in way to get the current scroll position of a ScrollView. The `ScrollViewReader` and `ScrollViewProxy` indeed only provide the `scrollTo` method, which allows you to scroll to a specific view within the ScrollView, but not to get the current scroll position.

However, you can work around this limitation by using the `GeometryReader` to calculate the scroll position relative to a certain view. Here is a basic example:

```swift
ScrollView {
    GeometryReader { geometry in
        Color.clear.preference(key: ScrollOffsetPreferenceKey.self, value: geometry.frame(in: .named("scrollView")).minY)
    }
    .frame(height: 0)

    // Your ScrollView content here
}

.onPreferenceChange(ScrollOffsetPreferenceKey.self) { offset in
    // Do something with the scroll offset
}
```

In this example, the `GeometryReader` is used to calculate the `minY` of a zero-height `Color.clear` view (which acts as a marker for the top of the ScrollView) in the coordinate space named "scrollView". This value is then passed to the `onPreferenceChange` modifier via a custom `PreferenceKey`, which can be defined like this:

```swift
struct ScrollOffsetPreferenceKey: PreferenceKey {
    static var defaultValue: CGFloat = 0
    static func reduce(value: inout CGFloat, nextValue: () -> CGFloat) {
        value += nextValue()
    }
}
```

This is a workaround and not a perfect solution, but it's currently the best way to get the scroll position in SwiftUI.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

As of now, SwiftUI does not provide a built-in way to get the current scroll position of a `ScrollView`. The `ScrollViewReader` and `ScrollViewProxy` indeed only provide the `scrollTo` method, which allows you to scroll to a specific view within the `ScrollView`.

However, you can use `GeometryReader` to get the current scroll position. Here's a basic example:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var scrollOffset: CGFloat = 0

    var body: some View {
        ScrollView {
            GeometryReader { geometry in
                Color.clear.preference(key: ViewOffsetKey.self, value: geometry.frame(in: .named("scrollView")).minY)
            }
            .frame(height: 0)

            // Your ScrollView content here
        }
        .coordinateSpace(name: "scrollView")
        .onPreferenceChange(ViewOffsetKey.self) { offset in
            self.scrollOffset = offset
        }
    }
}

struct ViewOffsetKey: PreferenceKey {
    typealias Value = CGFloat
    static var defaultValue = CGFloat.zero
    static func reduce(value: inout Value, nextValue: () -> Value) {
        value += nextValue()
    }
}
```

In this example, we use `GeometryReader` to get the `minY` of the frame, which gives us the current scroll position. We then use `PreferenceKey` to pass this value up to the `ScrollView`. The `scrollOffset` state variable will hold the current scroll position.

Please note that this is a workaround and may not be perfect. It would be great if future versions of SwiftUI provide a more straightforward way to get the current scroll position.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

As of now, SwiftUI does not provide a built-in way to get the current scroll position of a ScrollView. The `ScrollViewReader` and `ScrollViewProxy` only provide the `scrollTo` method, which allows you to scroll to a specific view within the ScrollView.

However, you can use a workaround to get the current scroll position by using the `GeometryReader` to measure the position of the items inside the ScrollView relative to a global coordinate space.

Here's a simple example:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        ScrollView {
            GeometryReader { geometry in
                Color.clear.preference(key: ViewOffsetKey.self, value: geometry.frame(in: .global).minY)
            }
            .frame(height: 0)

            // Your ScrollView content here
        }
        .coordinateSpace(name: "scrollView")
        .onPreferenceChange(ViewOffsetKey.self) { offset in
            print("Current scroll offset: \(offset)")
        }
    }
}

struct ViewOffsetKey: PreferenceKey {
    static var defaultValue: CGFloat = 0
    static func reduce(value: inout CGFloat, nextValue: () -> CGFloat) {
        value += nextValue()
    }
}
```

In this example, we add a `GeometryReader` at the top of the ScrollView. This `GeometryReader` measures its own position in the global coordinate space and stores this value as a preference using the `ViewOffsetKey`. As the ScrollView scrolls, the position of the `GeometryReader` changes, and the new offset is printed out.

Please note that this is a workaround and might not work perfectly in all situations. It's also possible that future versions of SwiftUI will provide a more direct way to get the current scroll position.

--------
