
# Post \#65384298 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65384298/)

## Xcode 12.3 SwiftUI Preview 1 of "Content View Previews" not found in any targets

**Vote**: 19 (269/702) **Views**: 6332 (496/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-613

Created at 2020-12-20 20:05:54

Tags: `xcode` `swiftui`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I see others post with issues using SwiftUI Previews in Xcode 11 and 12, but have not seen this issue elsewhere.
Older project that worked in Xcode 11, loaded in Xcode 12, fails to launch the preview, no matter how simple the Preview content.
Actual preview code:
```
struct ContentView_Previews: PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        Text("I heart Xcode")
            .previewDevice("iPhone 11")
    }
}
```

After clicking "Resume" or "Try Again":
> CouldNotFindInputNodeInBuiltGraphError<XcodeGraphSource,
PreviewInstance>: Preview 1 of "Content View Previews" not found in
any targetsPreview 1 of "Content View Previews" must belong to at least one
target in the current scheme in order to use previewsElement: PreviewInstance(destinationDescription:
UVPreviewPipeline.AnyPreviewDestinationDescription(storage:
UVPreviewPipeline.(unknown context at
$1382211e0).AnyPreviewDestinationDescriptionBoxImpl<UVIntegration.SimulatorPreviewDestinationDescription>),
previewIdentity: UVPreviewPipeline.PreviewIdentity(identifier:
ContentView_Previews[0], description: contentType: Element
contextType: application device: iPhone 11 index: 0 layout: device
supportsLive: true supportsOnDevice: true), variant: nil,
variantedIdentifier: ContentView_Previews[0], identifier:
AnyHashable(ContentView_Previews[0]))
I only have one target, same as before, with no special configuration. I have tried reloading Xcode as well as copying all sources files to a new directory (saw that one somewhere).
Anyone else able to parse this error message or make a recommendation for how to fix SwiftUI previews?
Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error message suggests that the preview code is not associated with any target in the current Xcode scheme. Here are a few things you can try to fix the issue:

1. Check the scheme settings: Make sure that the scheme for your project is set up correctly. Go to Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme and make sure that the correct target is selected for the scheme.

2. Clean the build folder: Sometimes Xcode can get confused and fail to build the preview. Try cleaning the build folder by going to Product > Clean Build Folder and then try running the preview again.

3. Restart Xcode: If all else fails, try restarting Xcode. This can sometimes fix issues with previews not working.

4. Check for updates: Make sure that you have the latest version of Xcode installed. If not, try updating to the latest version and see if that fixes the issue.

Hopefully, one of these solutions will help you get your SwiftUI previews working again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that the preview cannot be found in any of the targets in your Xcode project. Here are a few things you can try to fix the issue:

1. Check your scheme: Make sure that the scheme you are using to build your project includes the target that contains the preview code. You can check this by going to Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme and making sure that the correct target is selected under the "Build" tab.

2. Clean your project: Try cleaning your project by going to Product > Clean Build Folder. This will delete any cached build artifacts and may help resolve the issue.

3. Restart Xcode: Sometimes Xcode can get into a weird state and restarting it can help resolve issues like this.

4. Check your code: Double-check that your preview code is correct and that there are no syntax errors or other issues that could be causing the preview to fail.

If none of these solutions work, you may need to provide more information about your project setup and the specific error message you are seeing in order to diagnose the issue further.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message suggests that the preview instance cannot be found in any targets in the current scheme. Here are a few things you can try to fix the issue:

1. Check your scheme settings: Make sure that the target containing the preview code is included in the current scheme. You can do this by going to Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme and selecting the Build tab. Make sure that the target containing the preview code is checked.

2. Clean and rebuild your project: Sometimes Xcode can get confused and fail to build previews. Try cleaning your project (Product > Clean Build Folder) and rebuilding it (Product > Build).

3. Try a different device: Sometimes previews fail to launch on certain devices. Try changing the preview device to a different one and see if that helps.

4. Update Xcode: Make sure you are using the latest version of Xcode. If you are not, try updating to the latest version and see if that fixes the issue.

If none of these solutions work, you may need to provide more information about your project and the specific error message you are seeing.

--------
