
# Post \#72049777 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72049777/)

## How can I conform to ShapeStyle protocol in SwiftUI?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 1277 (637/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-622

Created at 2022-04-28 20:20:45

Tags: `swiftui`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am looking to conform to ShapeStyle, the goal is just conforming to ShapeStyle(Nothing more and nothing less).
Here is my code and the issue:
```
struct MyContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Circle()
            .fill(RedView())
    }
}

struct RedView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Color.red
    }
}
```

So I know I could use `Color.red` directly instead of a view, but as I said, the goal of this question is conformation to ShapeStyle. For those going to share apple developer link about ShapeStyle, I have to say I was there before.
Error:
> Instance method 'fill(_:style:)' requires that 'RedView' conform to 'ShapeStyle'


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To conform to `ShapeStyle`, you need to define a type that conforms to the `ShapeStyle` protocol. Here's an example of how you can modify your code to conform to `ShapeStyle`:

```
struct MyContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Circle()
            .fill(RedStyle())
    }
}

struct RedStyle: ShapeStyle {
    func makeBody(configuration: Self.Configuration) -> some View {
        Color.red
    }
}
```

In this example, we define a new type called `RedStyle` that conforms to `ShapeStyle`. The `makeBody(configuration:)` method returns a `View` that represents the style. In this case, we return `Color.red`, which is a `View` that represents a solid color. 

Now you can use `RedStyle()` as a `ShapeStyle` to fill your `Circle`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To conform to `ShapeStyle`, you need to define a `fill` method that takes a `Content` view and returns a new view with the specified fill style. Here's an example implementation for your `RedView`:

```
struct RedView: ShapeStyle {
    func makeBody(configuration: Self.Configuration) -> some View {
        configuration.fill(Color.red)
    }
}
```

With this implementation, you can use `RedView()` directly as a fill style for any shape:

```
struct MyContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Circle()
            .fill(RedView())
    }
}
```

This will create a red circle with the specified fill style.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To conform to `ShapeStyle`, you need to define a `fill` method that takes a `Content` parameter and returns a `some View`. Here's an example of how you can modify your `RedView` to conform to `ShapeStyle`:

```
struct MyContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Circle()
            .fill(RedViewStyle())
    }
}

struct RedViewStyle: ShapeStyle {
    func fill<S>(_ content: S) -> some View where S : Shape {
        return content.fill(Color.red)
    }
}
```

In this example, we've created a new `RedViewStyle` struct that conforms to `ShapeStyle`. The `fill` method takes a `Shape` parameter and returns a `some View`. Inside the `fill` method, we're calling the `fill` method on the `content` parameter and passing in `Color.red` as the `style` parameter.

Now, you can use `RedViewStyle` as the `fill` parameter for any `Shape` view.

--------
