
# Post \#65784294 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65784294/)

## How to detect if keyboard is present in swiftui

**Vote**: 13 (343/702) **Views**: 8501 (447/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-14-625

Created at 2021-01-19 01:21:58

Tags: `swift` `swiftui`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `swift` (full parsed tag list: `swift`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to know if the keyboard is present when the button is pressed. How would I do this? I have tried but I don't have any luck. Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To check if the keyboard is present when a button is pressed, you can use the following code in your program:

```
import tkinter as tk

def check_keyboard(event):
    if event.keysym == 'Return':
        if event.widget.winfo_keyboard() != '':
            print('Keyboard is present')
        else:
            print('Keyboard is not present')

root = tk.Tk()

button = tk.Button(root, text='Press me')
button.pack()

button.bind('<Return>', check_keyboard)

root.mainloop()
```

In this code, we are using the `winfo_keyboard()` method of the widget to check if the keyboard is present. If the method returns an empty string, it means that the keyboard is not present. Otherwise, it means that the keyboard is present.

We are also binding the `check_keyboard()` function to the `<Return>` event of the button. This means that the function will be called whenever the user presses the Enter key while the button is in focus.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To check if the keyboard is present when a button is pressed, you can use the following code:

```
if (Input.anyKeyDown) {
    if (Event.current.isKey) {
        Debug.Log("Keyboard is present");
    }
}
```

This code checks if any key is pressed and then checks if the event is a key event. If it is, then it logs that the keyboard is present.

Note that this code should be placed in the `Update()` function of a script attached to a GameObject in your scene. Also, make sure that you have imported the `UnityEngine` namespace at the top of your script.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To check if the keyboard is present when a button is pressed, you can use the following code:

```
if (Input.anyKeyDown) {
    if (Event.current.isKey) {
        Debug.Log("Keyboard is present");
    }
}
```

This code checks if any key is pressed and then checks if the event is a keyboard event. If it is, then it logs that the keyboard is present.

Note that this code should be placed in the `Update()` function of a script attached to a game object in your scene.

--------
