
# Post \#69890212 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69890212/)

## Running Excel 4.0 macro using button

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 1231 (644/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-639

Created at 2021-11-08 21:35:40

Tags: `excel` `vba` `button`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Macros on my spreadsheet that have been working for years, stopped working via buttons, though they still work from the VBA Developer window.
I use a normal shape (rectangle) as the button and assigned the macro to it (selecting from "ThisWorkbook").
To head off suggested fixes I've seen for other similar posts:
- - - - - - - - - 
I created a new program to show the problem is not the code itself:
```
Sub button_not_working()
    MsgBox "button_not_working"
End Sub
```

This program works using the green Play button in the VBA screen, but not via an assigned button on a sheet.
Code is in a normal VBA code Module (not "ThisWorkbook" area on VBA screen).
Macro is assigned by right-clicking shape, and the list of available Macros is just those in "This Workbook" on the Assign Macro popup.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/p0cBQ.jpg)
When clicking the Shape to run the assigned macro I get this error message.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/DfyCJ.jpg)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing typically occurs when Excel can't find the macro you're trying to run. Here are a few things you can try to resolve the issue:

1. **Check the Macro Name**: Make sure the macro name assigned to the button is exactly the same as the macro name in the VBA code module. It's case sensitive.

2. **Check the Macro Location**: If the macro is in a specific sheet or in the 'ThisWorkbook' section of the VBA editor, you may need to specify this when assigning the macro to the button. For example, if the macro is in Sheet1, you would use 'Sheet1.button_not_working' as the macro name.

3. **Check the Macro Security Level**: If your macro security level is set to high, Excel will disable all macros and won't give you the option to enable them. You can check this by going to 'File' > 'Options' > 'Trust Center' > 'Trust Center Settings' > 'Macro Settings'. If the security level is set to high, change it to medium or low.

4. **Repair Excel**: If none of the above solutions work, there might be an issue with your Excel installation. You can try repairing it by going to 'Control Panel' > 'Programs' > 'Programs and Features', selecting Microsoft Office or Excel, and clicking 'Change'. Then select 'Repair' and follow the prompts.

5. **Check for Updates**: Make sure your Excel is up to date. Sometimes, bugs that cause these issues are fixed in updates.

6. **Reinstall Excel**: If all else fails, you may need to uninstall and reinstall Excel. Please make sure to back up all important files before doing so.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing usually appears when Excel can't find the macro you're trying to run. This can happen for a few reasons, but given what you've described, it's likely that the issue is related to the location of your macro or the way it's being called.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check the macro name and location:** Make sure that the macro is in a standard module (not a worksheet module or ThisWorkbook) and that the name of the macro is spelled correctly in the button assignment. Also, ensure that the macro is not Private.

2. **Fully qualify the macro name:** When assigning the macro to the button, try using the full name, including the module name. So if your macro is in Module1, you would use `Module1.button_not_working`.

3. **Check your security settings:** Excel's security settings can prevent macros from running. Go to File > Options > Trust Center > Trust Center Settings > Macro Settings and make sure that macros are enabled.

4. **Repair your workbook:** It's possible that your workbook has become corrupted. You can try to repair it by saving it as a .xlsb file, closing Excel, reopening Excel, and then saving the file back to .xlsx or .xlsm format.

5. **Re-register Excel:** This is a more drastic step, but if nothing else works, you can try re-registering Excel. Close Excel, press Win + R to open the Run dialog, type `excel /unregserver` and press Enter. Then open the Run dialog again, type `excel /regserver` and press Enter. This will reset all of Excel's settings to their defaults.

If none of these steps work, it's possible that there's a more serious issue with your Excel installation, and you may need to reinstall Excel.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing usually occurs when Excel can't find the macro you're trying to run. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The macro is in a module that's not currently open. Make sure the workbook that contains the macro is open.

2. The macro has been deleted or renamed. Check to ensure the macro still exists and has the same name as what's assigned to the button.

3. The macro is in a different scope than what's accessible to the button. If the macro is in a private module or a worksheet module, it might not be accessible to the button. Try moving the macro to a public module.

4. The macro has a parameter. Macros assigned to buttons can't have parameters. Make sure your macro doesn't require any parameters.

5. There are issues with your Excel application or file. Try repairing your Excel application or creating a new Excel file and copying your data over.

If none of these solutions work, there might be an issue with the way your button is set up. Try deleting and recreating the button, then reassign the macro. If you're still having issues, you might want to consider using a Form Control button or an ActiveX Control button instead of a shape. These types of buttons are designed to work with macros and might be more reliable.

--------
