
# Post \#67474397 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67474397/)

## Alternative of FILTER function on non office 365

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 15093 (356/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-633

Created at 2021-05-10 16:40:57

Tags: `excel` `vba` `ms-office`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Using a Macro or Formula, is there a way to achieve the result of the following formula of Office 365?
`=FILTER(B:B,A:A = "x")`
What it does is get all the values from `Column B` if `Column A` on the same row has a value of `x`.
My PC has office 365 but the one I'm working with only has `Office Pro Plus 2019`. I had to use my pc when I needed the function and I'm getting tired of it, maybe it can be done on Office Pro Plus 2019 too using a formula or a macro?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can achieve the same result using the `IF` and `INDEX` functions in Excel. Here's the formula you can use:

`=IFERROR(INDEX(B:B,SMALL(IF(A:A="x",ROW(A:A)),ROW(1:1))),"")`

This is an array formula, so you need to enter it with `Ctrl+Shift+Enter` instead of just pressing Enter. 

You can then drag this formula down to get all the values from `Column B` where `Column A` has a value of `x`. The `IF` function checks if `Column A` has a value of `x` and returns the row number if it's true. The `INDEX` function then returns the value from `Column B` for that row number. The `SMALL` function is used to return the nth smallest value, where n is the row number. The `IFERROR` function is used to handle any errors that may occur if there are no more values to return.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can achieve the same result in Office Pro Plus 2019 using the `IF` and `INDEX` functions. Here's the formula you can use:

`=IFERROR(INDEX(B:B,SMALL(IF(A:A="x",ROW(A:A)),ROW(1:1))),"")`

This is an array formula, so you need to enter it with `Ctrl + Shift + Enter` instead of just pressing Enter. Then you can drag it down to get all the values.

Alternatively, you can use a macro to achieve the same result. Here's an example macro that does the same thing:

```
Sub FilterData()
    Dim lastRow As Long
    Dim i As Long
    Dim j As Long
    
    lastRow = Cells(Rows.Count, "A").End(xlUp).Row
    
    j = 1
    
    For i = 1 To lastRow
        If Cells(i, "A").Value = "x" Then
            Cells(j, "B").Value = Cells(i, "B").Value
            j = j + 1
        End If
    Next i
End Sub
```

This macro loops through all the rows in `Column A`, and if it finds a value of "x", it copies the corresponding value from `Column B` to a new sheet. You can modify it to suit your needs.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can achieve the same result using the `IF` and `INDEX` functions in Excel. Here's the formula you can use:

`=IFERROR(INDEX(B:B,SMALL(IF(A:A="x",ROW(A:A)),ROW(1:1))),"")`

This is an array formula, so you need to enter it with `Ctrl+Shift+Enter` instead of just pressing Enter.

This formula works by first checking if the value in `Column A` is equal to "x". If it is, it returns the row number of that cell. If it's not, it returns an error. The `SMALL` function then returns the nth smallest value from the resulting array of row numbers (where n is the row number of the cell where the formula is entered). Finally, the `INDEX` function returns the value in `Column B` at that row number.

You can copy this formula down as many rows as you need to get all the values from `Column B` that meet the criteria. If there are no more values to return, the formula will return an empty string ("").

--------
