
# Post \#58832269 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58832269/)

## Getting Error 3340 Query ' ' is corrupt while executing queries DoCmd.RunSQL

**Vote**: 85 (75/702) **Views**: 32495 (222/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-634

Created at 2019-11-13 07:32:43

Tags: `vba` `ms-access`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Since installing [the windows update for Office 2010 resolving KB 4484127](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4484127/security-update-for-office-2010-november-12-2019) I get an error while executing queries which contain a WHERE clause.

For example executing this query:

```
DoCmd.RunSQL "update users set uname= 'bob' where usercode=1"
```


Results in this error:

> Error number = 3340 Query ' ' is corrupt

The [update in question](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/20191112/security-update-deployment-information-november-12-2019) is currently still installed:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/V5hEf.png)

How can I successfully run my queries? Should I just uninstall this update?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is a known issue with the November 12, 2019, update for Office 2010 (KB4484127). This issue affects all queries with a WHERE clause and is not limited to your specific query.

Microsoft has acknowledged this issue and released a fix for it. You can resolve this issue by installing the latest updates for Office 2010. Here are the steps to do so:

1. Open any Office 2010 application, such as Word 2010 or Excel 2010, and create a new document.

2. Click on File in the top left corner.

3. Click on Help in the left pane.

4. Click on Check for Updates.

5. If updates are found, click Install updates.

If for some reason you can't install the latest updates, you can uninstall the problematic update (KB4484127) as a temporary workaround. However, keep in mind that this update includes security fixes, so it's recommended to install the latest updates as soon as possible to keep your system secure.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're encountering is a known issue caused by the November 12, 2019, update for Office 2010 (KB4484127). Microsoft has acknowledged this issue and released a fix for it.

To resolve this issue, you should install the latest updates for Office 2010. Specifically, you need to install the December 10, 2019, update for Office 2010 (KB4484193). This update fixes the issue that causes Access to fail when a query uses the Update method.

Here are the steps to install the update:

1. Go to the [Microsoft Update Catalog website](https://www.catalog.update.microsoft.com/Home.aspx).
2. In the search box, type "KB4484193" and press Enter.
3. In the list of search results, find the update that matches your version of Office (32-bit or 64-bit).
4. Click the "Download" button next to the update.
5. Follow the prompts to install the update.

After installing the update, you should be able to run your queries without encountering the "Query ' ' is corrupt" error.

If for some reason you can't install this update, as a workaround, you can modify your queries to use the Recordset object, instead of the RunSQL method. However, this might require significant changes to your code, so it's recommended to install the update if possible.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're experiencing is a known issue that was introduced by the November 12, 2019, updates for Office. It affects all versions of Microsoft Access. The issue specifically affects queries that have a WHERE clause.

Microsoft has released updates to fix this issue. Here are the updates you should install based on your version of Office:

- Office 2010: Description of the security update for Office 2010: December 10, 2019 (KB4484193)
- Office 2013: Description of the security update for Office 2013: December 10, 2019 (KB4484186)
- Office 2016: Description of the security update for Office 2016: December 10, 2019 (KB4484180)

You can find these updates on the Microsoft Update Catalog website or they may be available through Windows Update.

After installing the appropriate update, you should be able to run your queries without encountering the "Query ' ' is corrupt" error.

If for some reason you can't install these updates, a workaround is to change your queries to avoid the issue. Instead of using a WHERE clause directly in the Update statement, you can use a domain function, like DLookup. Here's how you can modify your query:

```
DoCmd.RunSQL "update users set uname= 'bob' where usercode=" & DLookup("usercode", "users", "usercode=1")
```

This workaround may not be practical if you have a large number of queries to change, so installing the update to fix the issue is the recommended solution.

--------
