
# Post \#63594054 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63594054/)

## Corrupt VBA Project Module Not Found Error

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 13365 (379/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-640

Created at 2020-08-26 08:55:28

Tags: `excel` `vba` `vbe`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a workbook that was saved yesterday afternoon, and was working perfectly. I have opened it this morning, and none of the modules in the VBE are 'found'. Visually I can see them all sitting there.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/CCjXi.png)
When trying to open any of these modules to edit the code, the windows are greyed out, as below.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/7HfgY.png)
When I try exporting the code modules, I get the 'Module Not Found' errror.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Gp16Q.png)
Does anyone know a) why this has happened, and b) how can I fix this?
I thought initially it was the instance of my Excel, so have restarted the PC.
Any help is appreciated!


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 4

Created at 2020-08-26 13:00:27

------------

I managed to find a workaround to this problem, so sharing the solution in the event that someone else comes across a similar problem.
It seems that the VBA Project got corrupt somehow. Below, find some suggestions and workarounds in trying to solve something similar in the future.

1. This is what worked for me. Convert the .xlsm file to a .xls file. You can do this by changing the file extension when renaming the file.
2. You can also try to convert to .zip file type, and then convert back to .xlsm. Note: convert COPIES of your original, just in case.


Other suggestions (as Chris Nelisen suggested) are:
- - 


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 3

Created at 2021-05-24 04:46:04

------------

My workaround, works perfectly:

1. Open Excel in safe mode (pressing and holding Ctrl while you start the program, or by using the /safe switch (excel.exe /safe) when you start the program from the command line)
2. Open corrupted workbook (from safe mode, File->Open-> navigate)
3. Do not enable macro if asked
4. Make sure macro is present (Alt+F11) - not necessary
5. Save as new workbook
6. Close safe mode excel
7. Open saved workbook as usual




------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 2

Created at 2020-12-11 15:40:26

------------

This is a well-described issue, and it exactly matches what I have just experienced (even including the fact that I haven't been versioning recently).
My file has an xlsb suffix.  Resaving with a different suffix did not work for me on the same PC, but I emailed the file to another PC, opened it, saved as xlsm, sent it back to the original machine and it now works fine again.  I can even re-save with my preferred xlsb suffix and it still works.
I've also run this script to make a backup of my modules:
```
Sub ExportVbaModules()
     
'Acknowledgements to Andy Pope [ozgrid thread 60787]
     
    Dim objMyProj As VBProject 'if error, go to VBA editor - tools - References - Microsoft Visual Basic-Extensibility5.3
    Dim objVBComp As VBComponent
     
    Set objMyProj = Application.ActiveWorkbook.VBProject
     
    For Each objVBComp In objMyProj.VBComponents
        If objVBComp.Type = vbext_ct_StdModule And objVBComp.Name <> "" Then
            objVBComp.Export "C:\Users\MyName\VbaBackups\" & objVBComp.Name & ".txt"
        End If
    Next

End Sub
```

The `And objVBComp.Name <> ""` stops it from erroring when it encounters a corrupted module but turned out not to be necessary as the 'fixed' file contained no corrupted modules.
Since that export routine is so fast (40 modules / 100kb saved in <1s) I will be assigning it to a button on the ribbon with a better naming convention for the files it creates.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 2

Created at 2021-01-12 19:58:08

------------

I copied my `.xslm` file from my PC to my OneDrive account.
I open the file on my iPad OneDrive account and then export to Excel for iOS. The file opens and says links and macros are disabled. I then save a copy of the file back to the OneDrive account. I go back to my PC and open the file from OneDrive. I re-establish the links.
The macros are from a backup. This is an issue if you aren't backing up your macros.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#4

 Vote: 0

Created at 2021-03-04 12:55:11

------------

Do you have this file on OneDrive?
If yes, I was facing that issue, and resolved restoring the last save. If you open OneDrive site (onedrive.live.com), find the file, and select Version History. Download the penultimate.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#5

 Vote: 0

Created at 2022-07-07 11:46:50

------------

When this happens on 64 bit Excel, I simply open the exact same file in 32 bit Excel and the macros re-appear.
When this happens on 32 bit Excel, I simply open the exact file in 64 bit Excel and the macros re-appear.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#6

 Vote: 0

Created at 2022-11-22 14:44:53

------------

Try to open the excel file in repair mode and save as the file one more time.
[Open and Repair](https://i.stack.imgur.com/HAm9L.png)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#7

 Vote: 0

Created at 2023-01-16 18:35:55

------------

I tried everything suggested and nothing worked. I could only see the module when I opened my VB editor.  It was not available through the view macros ribbon shortcut. I was unable to export the module or copy it to a new workbook.
What finally worked for me was emailing it to myself, downloading it through my 365 outlook account via a web browser, and then the code was there.


------------
    
    