
# Post \#69890212 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69890212/)

## Running Excel 4.0 macro using button

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 1231 (644/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-639

Created at 2021-11-08 21:35:40

Tags: `excel` `vba` `button`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Macros on my spreadsheet that have been working for years, stopped working via buttons, though they still work from the VBA Developer window.
I use a normal shape (rectangle) as the button and assigned the macro to it (selecting from "ThisWorkbook").
To head off suggested fixes I've seen for other similar posts:
- - - - - - - - - 
I created a new program to show the problem is not the code itself:
```
Sub button_not_working()
    MsgBox "button_not_working"
End Sub
```

This program works using the green Play button in the VBA screen, but not via an assigned button on a sheet.
Code is in a normal VBA code Module (not "ThisWorkbook" area on VBA screen).
Macro is assigned by right-clicking shape, and the list of available Macros is just those in "This Workbook" on the Assign Macro popup.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/p0cBQ.jpg)
When clicking the Shape to run the assigned macro I get this error message.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/DfyCJ.jpg)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It sounds like the issue may be with the button itself. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check that the button is properly linked to the macro. Right-click on the button and select "Assign Macro". Make sure the correct macro is selected.

2. Check that the button is enabled. Sometimes buttons can become disabled, which would prevent them from running the macro. Right-click on the button and select "Format Control". Under the "Control" tab, make sure the "Enabled" checkbox is selected.

3. Try deleting the button and creating a new one. Sometimes buttons can become corrupted, which would prevent them from running the macro. Delete the existing button and create a new one. Then, assign the macro to the new button.

4. Check that the button is not hidden or obscured. Make sure the button is visible and not covered by any other objects on the sheet.

Hopefully one of these solutions will help you get your macros working again via buttons.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It sounds like the issue may be with the button itself. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check the button properties: Right-click on the button and select "Format Control". Make sure the "Control" tab has the correct macro name in the "Cell link" field.

2. Check the button shape: Make sure the button shape is not grouped with other shapes or objects. If it is, ungroup it and try assigning the macro again.

3. Check the button location: Make sure the button is not located in a protected area of the worksheet. If it is, unprotect the worksheet and try again.

4. Check the button name: Make sure the button name does not conflict with any other object or variable names in your code.

5. Try recreating the button: Delete the existing button and create a new one. Assign the macro to the new button and see if it works.

If none of these solutions work, it may be a more complex issue with your spreadsheet or VBA environment. In that case, you may want to seek assistance from a VBA expert or Microsoft support.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It sounds like the issue may be with the button itself. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Delete the button and create a new one. Sometimes buttons can become corrupted and need to be recreated.

2. Check the properties of the button to make sure it is properly linked to the macro. Right-click on the button and select "Assign Macro". Make sure the correct macro is selected.

3. Check the security settings in Excel. If macros are disabled, the button will not work. Go to File > Options > Trust Center > Trust Center Settings. Make sure "Disable all macros without notification" is not selected.

4. Try running the macro from a different workbook. If the macro works in a different workbook, there may be an issue with the original workbook.

5. Check for any updates or changes to your Excel version. Sometimes updates can cause issues with macros and buttons.

Hopefully one of these solutions will help you get your button working again.

--------
