
# Post \#65605296 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65605296/)

## Return Excel VBA Macro OneDrive Local Path - Possible Lead

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 5227 (517/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-641

Created at 2021-01-07 00:59:33

Tags: `excel` `vba` `sharepoint` `onedrive`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a spreadsheet that many people need to access (on sharepoint), for a few reasons, we need to do this locally (synced).
however, there are constantly problems and errors arising due to knowledge levels of each user, the spreadsheet needs to have structure and consistency,  so in order to achieve that, i have created a userform with a suite of parameters to help people enter accurate data and avoid errors.
it is a tender register, used to enter client, client contact and tender information, which generates a quote number, folder and file name etc.
prior to OneDrive/Sharepoint path change (previously the file path would be local, now it is a sharepoint URL)
i had a macro that would run when a user clicked a button, that would create an appropriately named folder in the relevant local sharepoint directory, create a standard set of folders within that folder (Client Documents, Contract, Product Files, Drawings etc.) then open a Tender Form and save it in the created folder. the filename (the quote number) was used to lookup a query from the Tender register to return all the client/contact/quote information.
since sharepoint has changed it's path protocol from local to URL, i can't get this to work, resulting in a manual process, therefore, resulting in errors and inconsitencies.
i have searched high and low for ways to create folders and files on sharepoint using VBA, and also for ways to interact with the local path other than disabling "Use Office applications to sync Office files that I Open" (this function is required due to file collaboration.)
I had one hope when i found a way to convert a URL to a Local path, however, this isn't the best solution as each user syncs folders at different levels (maybe there is a way someone could help me with determining the path, a macro to search in the OneDrive directory for folder "2021 Tenders" and return the path... think this might be slow though)
however, i noticed if i goto File > Info, there is a button for "Open File Location" which takes me directly to the local path folder of the file, which tells me this information is somewhere in excel, there must be a way to retrieve it, i haven't seen reference to this in any of my searches, upon pointing it out, does anyone have any ideas on how or if this could work?
i tried to record a macro, but it didn't register it at all.
any help would be appreciated and thank you in advance.
[File > Info - Screenshot](https://i.stack.imgur.com/2uQds.png)
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/vAQkE.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It sounds like you're facing a few different challenges with your spreadsheet and its integration with SharePoint. Here are a few suggestions that might help:

1. Use the SharePoint REST API to create folders and files: You can use VBA to make HTTP requests to the SharePoint REST API, which will allow you to create folders and files on SharePoint. Here's an example of how to create a folder using the REST API:

```
Dim http As Object
Set http = CreateObject("MSXML2.XMLHTTP")

Dim url As String
url = "https://your.sharepoint.com/sites/your-site/_api/web/folders"

Dim body As String
body = "{ '__metadata': { 'type': 'SP.Folder' }, 'ServerRelativeUrl': '/sites/your-site/your-folder' }"

http.Open "POST", url, False
http.setRequestHeader "Accept", "application/json;odata=verbose"
http.setRequestHeader "Content-Type", "application/json;odata=verbose"
http.setRequestHeader "X-RequestDigest", "your-request-digest"
http.send body
```

You'll need to replace the URL with your own SharePoint site and folder, and you'll need to obtain a request digest token to authenticate your request. You can find more information about the SharePoint REST API here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/sp-add-ins/complete-basic-operations-using-sharepoint-rest-endpoints.

2. Use the OneDrive API to determine the local path: If you're using OneDrive to sync your SharePoint files locally, you can use the OneDrive API to determine the local path of the synced folder. Here's an example of how to get the local path of a file using the OneDrive API:

```
Dim http As Object
Set http = CreateObject("MSXML2.XMLHTTP")

Dim url As String
url = "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/me/drive/root:/path/to/your/file"

http.Open "GET", url, False
http.setRequestHeader "Authorization", "Bearer your-access-token"
http.send

Dim response As Object
Set response = JsonConverter.ParseJson(http.responseText)

Dim localPath As String
localPath = response("parentReference")("path")
```

You'll need to replace the URL with the path to your own file, and you'll need to obtain an access token to authenticate your request. You can find more information about the OneDrive API here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/onedrive?view=graph-rest-1.0.

3. Use the Windows API to open the file location: If you're unable to determine the local path of the file using the SharePoint or OneDrive APIs, you can use the Windows API to open the file location directly. Here's an example of how to open the file location using the Windows API:

```
Dim path As String
path = "https://your.sharepoint.com/sites/your-site/your-file.xlsx"

Dim shell As Object
Set shell = CreateObject("WScript.Shell")

shell.Run "explorer.exe /select," & Replace(path, "/", "\"), 1, True
```

This will open the file location in Windows Explorer and select the file. You can then use VBA to parse the path and extract the folder information you need.

I hope one of these suggestions helps you solve your problem! Let me know if you have any questions or need further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It sounds like you are facing a complex issue with the change in the file path protocol for SharePoint. Unfortunately, there is no straightforward solution to this problem, but there are a few things you can try.

Firstly, you could try using the SharePoint REST API to create folders and files on SharePoint using VBA. This would require some knowledge of programming and the SharePoint API, but it may be a viable solution.

Secondly, you could try using the OneDrive API to interact with the local path of the file. This would require some programming knowledge as well, but it may be a more straightforward solution than using the SharePoint API.

Lastly, you could try using a third-party tool or add-in that is designed to work with SharePoint and Excel. There are many tools available that can help with file management and collaboration on SharePoint, and some of them may have the functionality you need.

As for retrieving the local path of the file, unfortunately, there is no built-in function or method in Excel that can do this. The "Open File Location" button in the File Info menu is a Windows Explorer function and is not accessible through VBA.

I hope this helps, and good luck with finding a solution to your problem.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It sounds like you are trying to automate the process of creating folders and files on SharePoint using VBA. Unfortunately, this is not a straightforward task as SharePoint is a web-based platform and VBA is designed to work with local files and folders.

One possible solution is to use the SharePoint REST API to create folders and files on SharePoint. The REST API allows you to interact with SharePoint using HTTP requests and responses, which can be generated using VBA.

Here is an example of how you can use the SharePoint REST API to create a folder on SharePoint:

1. Construct the URL for the REST API endpoint that creates a folder. The URL should include the site URL, the library name, and the folder name.

```
https://<site_url>/_api/web/lists/getbytitle('<library_name>')/rootfolder/folders/add(url='<folder_name>')
```

2. Create an HTTP request using VBA. The request should include the URL, the HTTP method (POST), and the authentication token.

```
Dim request As Object
Set request = CreateObject("MSXML2.XMLHTTP")
request.Open "POST", <url>, False
request.setRequestHeader "Authorization", "Bearer " & <authentication_token>
request.setRequestHeader "Content-Type", "application/json;odata=verbose"
```

3. Send the HTTP request and check the response status code to ensure that the folder was created successfully.

```
request.send
If request.Status = 201 Then
    MsgBox "Folder created successfully"
Else
    MsgBox "Error creating folder"
End If
```

You can use a similar approach to create files on SharePoint using the REST API.

As for retrieving the local path of the SharePoint file, you can use the following VBA code to get the local path of the active workbook:

```
Dim path As String
path = ThisWorkbook.Path
```

This will return the local path of the folder that contains the active workbook. You can then use this path to construct the local path of the SharePoint folder and create the necessary subfolders and files.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
