
# Post \#68500472 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68500472/)

## SolidWorks API SelectByID2 method

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 2562 (587/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-638

Created at 2021-07-23 14:03:41

Tags: `vba` `api` `solidworks`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

There is a more efficient method using the  and  methods to obtain the points that can be used with SelectByID2 method. The issue of the method below is that creation of each point is not time efficient nor tidy in the feature tree. Will update this thread once I have time.
Thank you for understanding.

---


I recently started some programming in VBA in SolidWorks and I am looking to write a macro. The goal for now is to create a reference plane from selected face and point(deriving it from edge). As a reminder, method to create the reference plane is InsertRefPlane, which requires the selection to be done by SelectByID2 method.
So far I've managed to save the handle for the face and point objects, but I haven't managed to successfully use the SelectByID2 method. Objects that were selected become deselected.
`value = instance.SelectByID2(Name, Type, X, Y, Z, Append, Mark, Callout, SelectOption)`
I have tried select just a face, but I couldn't manage to do it. Also, I have renamed the face property using the SetEntityName method, and supplied it as well, but it did not manage to select it.
Could you please share the ideas how to do create a reference plane? It doesn't have to be necessary a face and an edge/mid-point.
Thank you in advance.

For further clarification, I have added two objects (face and edge) to selection and I would like to use those to properly select objects with SelectByID2 to use for InsertRefPlane. I have added the code below.
Ideas that I have are:
- I have handles to the face and the edge, but can I use those for proper selection with SelectByID2?- Can I create a reference points on the selected face and edge to identify the face somehow?- SelectByRay seems feasible, but it would require some calculations with face normals so, I would try some other "simpler" methods if available. : I have non-planar face so I can't request Normal property of the face.- : It seems that it all comes down to identifying an object name and type is the way to solve the problem. This is probably a solution, but I'm open for another one, easier if possible. We can create a reference points when using one of appropriate Selection methods, because their names are known, we can use those for SelectbyID2 method.  Will post the solution once I am done.- Regarding the GetFaces/GetFirstFace/GetNextFace methods, [InsertRefPlane](https://help.solidworks.com/2017/english/api/sldworksapi/solidworks.interop.sldworks%7Esolidworks.interop.sldworks.ifeaturemanager%7Einsertrefplane.html) requires objects to be selected by SelectByID2
```
Dim swApp As SldWorks.SldWorks
Dim swModel As SldWorks.ModelDoc2
Dim swPart As SldWorks.PartDoc
Dim swSelMgr As SldWorks.SelectionMgr
Dim swModelDocExt As SldWorks.ModelDocExtension
Dim swFeatMgr As SldWorks.FeatureManager

Dim selBool As Boolean
Dim longstatus As Long, longwarnings As Long

Sub main()

Set swApp = Application.SldWorks
Set swModel = swApp.ActiveDoc
Set swModelDocExt = swModel.Extension
Set swPart = swModel
Set swSelMgr = swModel.SelectionManager
Set swFeatMgr = swModel.FeatureManager

' Check which file is opened
Dim filePath As String: filePath = swModel.GetPathName()
Debug.Print "File path is:" & filePath

'   User has to select the face and the edge of the body to create plane and
'   sketch to convert face entities
' Gets selection from SelectionManager
Dim numSelectedObjs As Long
Dim selectionMark As Long: selectionMark = -1

numSelectedObjs = swSelMgr.GetSelectedObjectCount2(selectionMark)
Debug.Print "Number of selected objects:" & numSelectedObjs

Dim faceObj As SldWorks.Face2
Dim edgeObj As SldWorks.Edge
Dim midpointObj As Object

If (numSelectedObjs > 0) Then
    ' Get and validate selection
    Dim selObj As Object
    Dim selObjIndex As Long
    Dim selObjType As Long
    For selObjIndex = 1 To numSelectedObjs ' This method uses 1 as first index
        selObjType = swSelMgr.GetSelectedObjectType3(selObjIndex, selectionMark)
        ' Check selected object type and assign it to appropriate variable
        If (selObjType = SwConst.swSelFACES) Then
            Set faceObj = swSelMgr.GetSelectedObject6(selObjIndex, selectionMark)
            Dim faceFeat As Object
            Set faceFeat = faceObj.GetFeature()
        ElseIf (selObjType = SwConst.swSelEDGES) Then
            Set edgeObj = swSelMgr.GetSelectedObject6(selObjIndex, selectionMark)
            swModel.SelectMidpoint ' With this line, we add point to selection, increasing the count to 3
            Dim deselVal As Long
            deselVal = swSelMgr.DeSelect2(selObjIndex, selectionMark) ' Deselect the edge
            Set midpointObj = swSelMgr.GetSelectedObject6(selObjIndex, selectionMark) ' Set the object to the point
        Else
            MsgBox "Wrong objects selected, select only face and edge"
            Exit For
        End If
    Next
End If

' Create reference plane using face and a point
' InsertRefPlane method requires selection using SelectByID2 Method

Dim objName, objType As String: objName = "": objType = SwConst.swSelectType_e.swSelFACES
Dim X, Y, Z As Double: X = 0: Y = 0: Z = 0
Dim selAppend As Boolean: selAppend = True
Dim objMark As Long: objMark = 0
Dim objCallout As Callout
Dim selOption As swSelectOption_e: selOption = 0

selBool = swModel.Extension.SelectByID2(objName, objType, X, Y, Z, selAppend, objMark, objCallout, selOption)
Debug.Print selBool
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The SelectByID2 method is used to select an entity in the SolidWorks graphics area. The parameters for this method are:

- Name: The name of the entity to select.
- Type: The type of the entity to select.
- X, Y, Z: The coordinates of the entity to select.
- Append: Whether to add this entity to the current selection list.
- Mark: The selection mark for this entity.
- Callout: The callout for this entity.
- SelectOption: The selection option for this entity.

In your case, you are trying to select a face and a point. The issue you are facing might be due to the fact that you are not providing the correct parameters to the SelectByID2 method.

Here is a possible solution:

1. Get the name of the face and the point. You can do this by using the GetEntityName method on the face and point objects.

2. Use the SelectByID2 method to select the face and the point. Make sure to provide the correct parameters. For example, the type should be "FACE" for the face and "DATUMPOINT" for the point. The X, Y, Z coordinates should be the coordinates of the face and point. The Append parameter should be True if you want to add this entity to the current selection list. The Mark parameter can be 0 if you don't want to assign a selection mark to this entity. The Callout parameter can be Nothing if you don't want to assign a callout to this entity. The SelectOption parameter can be 0 if you don't want to use any special selection options.

Here is an example of how to use the SelectByID2 method:

```vba
Dim faceName As String
Dim pointName As String

' Get the name of the face and the point
faceName = faceObj.GetEntityName
pointName = pointObj.GetEntityName

' Select the face
swModel.Extension.SelectByID2(faceName, "FACE", 0, 0, 0, False, 0, Nothing, 0)

' Select the point
swModel.Extension.SelectByID2(pointName, "DATUMPOINT", 0, 0, 0, True, 0, Nothing, 0)
```

After selecting the face and the point, you can use the InsertRefPlane method to create a reference plane.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The SelectByID2 method is used to select entities in SolidWorks. The parameters for this method are as follows:

- Name: The name of the entity to select.
- Type: The type of the entity to select.
- X, Y, Z: The coordinates of the entity to select.
- Append: Whether to append the selection to the current selection list.
- Mark: The selection mark of the entity to select.
- Callout: The callout to use for the selection.
- SelectOption: The selection option to use.

In your case, you are trying to select a face and a point to create a reference plane. The issue you are facing is that the objects that were selected become deselected. This could be due to the fact that you are not providing the correct parameters to the SelectByID2 method.

Here are some suggestions to fix your issue:

1. Make sure you are providing the correct name for the entity you are trying to select. The name should be the same as the one displayed in the SolidWorks feature tree.

2. Make sure you are providing the correct type for the entity you are trying to select. For a face, the type should be "FACE", and for a point, the type should be "VERTEX".

3. Make sure you are providing the correct coordinates for the entity you are trying to select. The coordinates should be the same as the ones displayed in the SolidWorks graphics area.

4. Set the Append parameter to True to append the selection to the current selection list.

5. Set the Mark parameter to a unique number for each entity you are trying to select. This will allow you to identify the entities later.

6. You can leave the Callout and SelectOption parameters as null.

Here is an example of how to use the SelectByID2 method to select a face and a point:

```vba
' Select the face
swModel.Extension.SelectByID2("Face1", "FACE", 0, 0, 0, True, 1, Nothing, 0)

' Select the point
swModel.Extension.SelectByID2("Point1", "VERTEX", 0, 0, 0, True, 2, Nothing, 0)
```

After selecting the entities, you can use the InsertRefPlane method to create the reference plane.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The SelectByID2 method is a bit tricky to use. It requires the name of the entity you want to select, which can be difficult to obtain for faces and edges. However, you can use the GetEntity method to get the entity of the face or edge, and then use the GetName method to get its name. Here's how you can do it:

```vba
Dim faceEntity As SldWorks.Entity
Set faceEntity = faceObj.GetEntity
Dim faceName As String
faceName = faceEntity.GetName
```

You can do the same for the edge. Once you have the names, you can use them in the SelectByID2 method.

However, there's a simpler way to create a reference plane from a face and a point. You can use the CreatePlaneAtSurface method of the ModelDoc2 object. This method creates a plane at the first selected face or plane, and the plane is perpendicular to the first selected edge or axis. Here's how you can do it:

```vba
Dim swPlane As SldWorks.RefPlane
Set swPlane = swModel.CreatePlaneAtSurface(faceObj, swPlaneAtSurfaceCreationOptions_e.swPlaneAtSurfaceCreationOptions_NormalToSurface, Nothing)
```

This method automatically deselects the selected entities, so you don't need to worry about that. Also, it doesn't require you to use the SelectByID2 method, which makes things simpler.

--------
