
# Post \#65918864 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65918864/)

## Automation Error when running Selenium VBA on Excel 2019

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 10401 (412/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-637

Created at 2021-01-27 12:09:19

Tags: `excel` `vba` `selenium` `automation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I  was running the following code without a problem on a machine with excel 2013.  We recently upgraded to Excel 2019 and the  macro  now returns an  error. I noticed that the error seems to be in the  section , it looks like it's not 'registering' the reference.  I have reinstalled the Selenium add-in , re-pointed the reference,  tried different browsers ( chrome, edge etc)  but to no avail .
```
Dim driver As New WebDriver
Dim keyObj As Selenium.keys
Dim IE As Object

Set keyObj = New Selenium.keys

driver.Start "ie"
driver.Window.Maximize
driver.Get "https://www.google.com/"
```

Any suggestions/ ideas would be much appreciated.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're experiencing might be due to a few reasons. Here are some suggestions to troubleshoot:

1. **Check Selenium WebDriver Version**: Make sure you are using the latest version of Selenium WebDriver. Sometimes, older versions may not be compatible with newer versions of Excel.

2. **Check Internet Explorer Driver**: Since you're using Internet Explorer as your browser, make sure you have the correct version of the Internet Explorer Driver installed. Also, note that Selenium WebDriver has deprecated support for Internet Explorer since version 4.0.0.

3. **Check Excel References**: In VBA, go to Tools > References and make sure that Selenium Type Library is checked. If it's not, scroll down, find it and check it.

4. **Check Excel Trust Center Settings**: Go to File > Options > Trust Center > Trust Center Settings > Macro Settings. Make sure "Trust access to the VBA project object model" is checked.

5. **Try Using a Different Browser**: Internet Explorer is being phased out by Microsoft. Try using a more modern browser like Chrome or Firefox. If you decide to use a different browser, make sure to download and install the corresponding WebDriver.

6. **Check Your Code**: Make sure your code is correct. Here is an example of how to use Selenium with Chrome:

```vba
Dim bot As New WebDriver
bot.Start "chrome", "http://www.google.com"
bot.Get "/"
```

Remember to replace "chrome" with "firefox" or "edge" if you want to use those browsers instead.

7. **Check Excel and Selenium Compatibility**: Ensure that your version of Excel is compatible with Selenium. You might need to downgrade or upgrade your Excel version.

If none of these suggestions work, please provide more information about the error message you're receiving.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're experiencing might be due to several reasons. Here are a few things you could try:

1. **Check the Selenium WebDriver version**: Ensure that you're using the latest version of Selenium WebDriver. If not, try updating it.

2. **Check the Internet Explorer Driver Server**: If you're using Internet Explorer, you need to download the Internet Explorer Driver Server. This is a separate component from Selenium WebDriver and needs to be installed and configured separately.

3. **Check the SeleniumBasic references**: In VBA, go to Tools > References and ensure that Selenium Type Library is checked. If it's not, scroll through the list to find it and check it.

4. **Check the browser version and corresponding WebDriver**: The WebDriver you're using should correspond to the version of the browser you're using. For example, if you're using Chrome, you should be using ChromeDriver. If you're using Edge, you should be using EdgeDriver. Also, the WebDriver version should be compatible with the browser version.

5. **Check the browser settings**: If you're using Internet Explorer, you need to set the Zoom level to 100% and also need to set the same Protected Mode setting for each zone.

6. **Try using a different browser**: If none of the above solutions work, try using a different browser. If you're currently using Internet Explorer, try using Chrome or Firefox instead.

If none of these suggestions work, please provide the exact error message you're receiving for more specific help.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue you're experiencing might be due to a few reasons. Here are some suggestions that might help you solve the problem:

1. **Check the Selenium WebDriver version**: Make sure that the Selenium WebDriver version you're using is compatible with the version of the browser you're trying to automate. 

2. **Check the Selenium Basic version**: Ensure that the Selenium Basic version is compatible with your Excel version. You might need to upgrade or downgrade Selenium Basic.

3. **Check the Internet Explorer version**: The code you've provided is starting an Internet Explorer driver. Ensure that the version of Internet Explorer installed on your machine is compatible with the Selenium WebDriver version you're using. 

4. **Check the Internet Explorer settings**: Selenium requires certain settings to be enabled in Internet Explorer. Go to Internet Options > Security tab, and ensure that "Enable Protected Mode" is checked for all zones (Internet, Local intranet, Trusted sites, Restricted sites).

5. **Try using a different browser**: If none of the above solutions work, you might want to try automating a different browser. If you decide to use Chrome or Firefox, make sure to download the corresponding WebDriver and add its location to your system's PATH.

Here is an example of how you can start a Chrome driver:

```vba
Dim driver As New WebDriver

driver.Start "chrome"
driver.Window.Maximize
driver.Get "https://www.google.com/"
```

Remember to replace "chrome" with "firefox" if you want to use Firefox. 

6. **Check the references in VBA**: In VBA, go to Tools > References and make sure that Selenium Type Library is checked. If it's not in the list, you might need to browse for the Selenium Basic .dll file and add it manually.

7. **Reinstall Selenium Basic**: If all else fails, try uninstalling and reinstalling Selenium Basic. 

If none of these suggestions work, please provide the exact error message you're getting so I can provide a more specific solution.

--------
