
# Post \#54650417 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54650417/)

## How can I create a calendar input in VBA Excel?

**Vote**: 48 (127/702) **Views**: 38011 (197/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-627

Created at 2019-02-12 12:44:13

Tags: `excel` `vba`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------



In VBA, three main kinds of date time controls can be used provided certain ocxs have been registered using [administrator rights](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/91cf3127-70fe-4726-8a27-31b8964430c5/registering-mscomct2ocx-in-64-bit-windows-7?forum=sbappdev). These are VB6 controls and are not native to VBA environment. To install the  and , we need to set a reference to  which can only be accessed by elevated registration of . Similarly for  and . Having said that, the  may or may not work on Windows 10. 

Depending on your Windows and Office versions (32 bit or 64 bit), it can be really painful to register these ocxs.

The ,  and the  look like below.

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/LXHzf.png)



If you include them in your project and distribute them to your friends, neighbours, clients etc the application may or may not work depending on whether they have those ocx installed.

And hence it is highly advisable  to use them in your project



This [calendar, using Userform and Worksheet](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12012206/formatting-mm-dd-yyyy-dates-in-textbox-in-vba/12013961#12013961), was suggested earlier and is incredibly basic.

When I saw the Windows 10 calendar which popped up when I clicked on the date and time from the system tray, I could not help but wonder if we can replicate that in VBA.

This post is about how to create a calendar  which is not dependant on any ocx or 32bit/64bit and can be freely distributed with your project.

This is what the calendar looks like in Windows 10:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/e412s.png)

and this is how you interact with it:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/O4G2j.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

As a professional assistant for programmers, I can suggest using the built-in Date Picker control in VBA. This control is available in the Developer tab of the Ribbon in Excel and can be added to a UserForm. It provides a calendar interface for selecting dates and does not require any external ocx files. 

To add the Date Picker control to a UserForm, follow these steps:

1. Open the UserForm in the VBA Editor.
2. If the Developer tab is not visible in the Ribbon, go to File > Options > Customize Ribbon and check the box next to Developer in the right-hand column.
3. In the Developer tab, click on the Insert button and select the Date Picker control from the list.
4. Drag the Date Picker control onto the UserForm and resize it as needed.
5. In the Properties window, set the Value property to the default date you want to display when the UserForm is opened.

You can then use the Value property of the Date Picker control to retrieve the selected date in your VBA code. For example:

```
Private Sub DatePicker1_Change()
    MsgBox "Selected date: " & DatePicker1.Value
End Sub
```

This code will display a message box with the selected date whenever the user changes the date in the Date Picker control.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

As a professional assistant for programmers, I can suggest using the built-in Date Picker control in VBA. This control is available in the Developer tab in Excel and can be added to a UserForm. It provides a calendar interface for selecting dates and does not require any external ocx files. 

To add the Date Picker control to a UserForm, follow these steps:

1. Open the UserForm in the VBA editor.
2. Go to the Developer tab and click on the Insert button.
3. Select the Date Picker control from the ActiveX Controls section.
4. Drag and drop the control onto the UserForm.
5. Adjust the size and position of the control as needed.

Once the Date Picker control is added to the UserForm, you can use its Value property to get the selected date. For example, if the control is named "DatePicker1", you can get the selected date using the following code:

```
Dim selectedDate As Date
selectedDate = DatePicker1.Value
```

You can then use the selected date in your VBA code as needed.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

As a professional assistant for programmers, I can suggest using the built-in Date Picker control in VBA. This control is available in all versions of Excel and does not require any additional installation or registration of ocxs. 

To add the Date Picker control to your Userform, follow these steps:

1. Open the Userform in design mode.
2. Go to the Developer tab and click on the Insert button.
3. From the ActiveX Controls section, select the Microsoft Date and Time Picker Control.
4. Click on the Userform where you want to place the control.

Once the control is added to the Userform, you can customize its properties to suit your needs. For example, you can set the format of the date, the default value, and the range of dates that can be selected.

To retrieve the selected date from the control, you can use the Value property. For example, if the name of your Date Picker control is "DatePicker1", you can retrieve the selected date using the following code:

```
Dim selectedDate As Date
selectedDate = DatePicker1.Value
```

I hope this helps you create a calendar in VBA without the need for any external ocxs.

--------
