
# Post \#65918864 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65918864/)

## Automation Error when running Selenium VBA on Excel 2019

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 10401 (412/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-637

Created at 2021-01-27 12:09:19

Tags: `excel` `vba` `selenium` `automation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I  was running the following code without a problem on a machine with excel 2013.  We recently upgraded to Excel 2019 and the  macro  now returns an  error. I noticed that the error seems to be in the  section , it looks like it's not 'registering' the reference.  I have reinstalled the Selenium add-in , re-pointed the reference,  tried different browsers ( chrome, edge etc)  but to no avail .
```
Dim driver As New WebDriver
Dim keyObj As Selenium.keys
Dim IE As Object

Set keyObj = New Selenium.keys

driver.Start "ie"
driver.Window.Maximize
driver.Get "https://www.google.com/"
```

Any suggestions/ ideas would be much appreciated.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It's possible that the issue is related to the version of the Selenium WebDriver that you're using. Excel 2019 may require a different version than Excel 2013. 

You can try updating the Selenium WebDriver to the latest version and see if that resolves the issue. You can download the latest version from the Selenium website: https://www.selenium.dev/downloads/

If that doesn't work, you can try using a different browser driver. For example, instead of using the Internet Explorer driver, you can try using the Chrome driver or the Firefox driver. You'll need to download the appropriate driver and update your code to use it. 

Finally, you can try checking the references in your VBA project to make sure they're all pointing to the correct versions. In the VBA editor, go to Tools > References and make sure all the references are checked and there are no missing references.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It's possible that the issue is related to the version of the Selenium WebDriver you are using. Excel 2019 may require a different version of the WebDriver than Excel 2013. 

You can try updating the Selenium WebDriver to the latest version and see if that resolves the issue. You can download the latest version of the WebDriver from the Selenium website.

Another thing to check is whether the Selenium add-in is enabled in Excel 2019. You can check this by going to the Excel Options menu, selecting Add-ins, and then checking if the Selenium add-in is listed and enabled.

If neither of these solutions work, you may need to provide more information about the specific error message you are receiving in order to troubleshoot further.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It's possible that the issue is related to the version of the Selenium WebDriver you are using. Excel 2019 may require a newer version of the WebDriver than what you were using with Excel 2013.

You can try updating the Selenium WebDriver to the latest version and see if that resolves the issue. You can download the latest version of the WebDriver from the Selenium website.

Another thing to check is whether the Selenium add-in is enabled in Excel 2019. You can check this by going to the Excel Options menu, selecting Add-ins, and then checking if the Selenium add-in is listed and enabled.

If neither of these solutions work, you may need to provide more information about the specific error message you are receiving in order to troubleshoot further.

--------
