
# Post \#69890212 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69890212/)

## Running Excel 4.0 macro using button

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 1231 (644/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-639

Created at 2021-11-08 21:35:40

Tags: `excel` `vba` `button`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Macros on my spreadsheet that have been working for years, stopped working via buttons, though they still work from the VBA Developer window.
I use a normal shape (rectangle) as the button and assigned the macro to it (selecting from "ThisWorkbook").
To head off suggested fixes I've seen for other similar posts:
- - - - - - - - - 
I created a new program to show the problem is not the code itself:
```
Sub button_not_working()
    MsgBox "button_not_working"
End Sub
```

This program works using the green Play button in the VBA screen, but not via an assigned button on a sheet.
Code is in a normal VBA code Module (not "ThisWorkbook" area on VBA screen).
Macro is assigned by right-clicking shape, and the list of available Macros is just those in "This Workbook" on the Assign Macro popup.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/p0cBQ.jpg)
When clicking the Shape to run the assigned macro I get this error message.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/DfyCJ.jpg)


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 1

Created at 2021-11-10 22:21:34

------------

Solved - turned out I needed to check the box for "Enable Excel 4.0 Macros".
Apparently, Microsoft has just started disabling this by default in Office 365 starting this month!
So in Excel... File>>Options>>Trust Center>>Trust Center Settings>>Macro settings


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 3

Created at 2021-11-09 00:02:19

------------

You can't call code from `ThisWorkbook` in a button event.
I like to put the button events in the code behind the sheet where the button lives. This way the code move with the sheet wherever that sheet is copied.
Use a form button. Right-click on the form button and select `Assign Macro...`. Then select the VBA subroutine from the list that pops up. Only procedures visible on this popup will work.
NOTE:
Never use `_` in any names in VBA. It's reserved for event handling.
```
Public Sub ButtonIsWorking()
    MsgBox "button is working"
End Sub
```


[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/eYNGs.png)

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/XuISn.png)

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/dyrat.png)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 1

Created at 2021-11-08 21:49:51

------------

Often this issue can occur due to multiple screens or resolution difference issues. If you are using a laptop connected to screens try using the button on the laptop while it's disconnected from your monitors. If this fixes the issue then ensure you have the same resolution and/or scaling between the two setups.
If this change only happened recently and is on a desktop or laptop screen without additional monitors ensure your scaling is set to 100% in case it has recently changed.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 0

Created at 2021-11-08 22:04:58

------------

Something to try: Make sure your 'caller' shapes have unique names
Note: It's possible to have multiple shapes with the same name and (for whatever reason) that can confuse excel's shape-to-macro-connection.
Additional Info 1:
If you use a 'grouped shapes' object as a control, you should assign the same name to all shapes in the group.
Additional Info 2:
The original OP symptom was simply "Macros ... stopped working via buttons." The OP has since been updated, and shows an error message. The disconnect-due-to-non-unique-naming described here doesn't elicit an error message. Rather the symptoms can be either of: a) the macro isn't run at all or b) the 'caller' object in the called macro is invalid.


------------
    
    