
# Post \#58832269 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58832269/)

## Getting Error 3340 Query ' ' is corrupt while executing queries DoCmd.RunSQL

**Vote**: 85 (75/702) **Views**: 32495 (222/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-634

Created at 2019-11-13 07:32:43

Tags: `vba` `ms-access`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Since installing [the windows update for Office 2010 resolving KB 4484127](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4484127/security-update-for-office-2010-november-12-2019) I get an error while executing queries which contain a WHERE clause.

For example executing this query:

```
DoCmd.RunSQL "update users set uname= 'bob' where usercode=1"
```


Results in this error:

> Error number = 3340 Query ' ' is corrupt

The [update in question](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/20191112/security-update-deployment-information-november-12-2019) is currently still installed:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/V5hEf.png)

How can I successfully run my queries? Should I just uninstall this update?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems that the update has caused some issues with Access databases. You can try the following solutions:

1. Uninstall the update: If the update is causing too many issues, you can uninstall it and see if the problem goes away. To do this, go to Control Panel > Programs and Features > View Installed Updates. Find the update in question and uninstall it.

2. Use a different query method: Instead of using the `DoCmd.RunSQL` method, try using the `CurrentDb.Execute` method. For example:

```
CurrentDb.Execute "update users set uname= 'bob' where usercode=1"
```

3. Compact and repair the database: Sometimes, Access databases can become corrupted and cause issues like this. Try compacting and repairing the database to see if it resolves the issue. To do this, go to File > Options > Current Database. Click on the "Compact and Repair Database" button.

4. Contact Microsoft support: If none of the above solutions work, you can contact Microsoft support for further assistance. They may have a patch or workaround for this issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems that the update has caused some issues with Access databases. One solution is to uninstall the update, but it's not recommended as it may leave your system vulnerable to security threats.

Instead, you can try the following workaround:

1. Open the Access database that contains the query.
2. Open the query in Design view.
3. Remove the WHERE clause from the query.
4. Save and close the query.
5. Open the query in SQL view.
6. Add the WHERE clause back to the query.
7. Save and close the query.
8. Try running the query again.

This workaround should allow you to run your queries without encountering the error. If the issue persists, you may need to contact Microsoft support for further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems that this issue is caused by the recent security update for Office 2010 (KB4484127). Microsoft has acknowledged this issue and has released a fix for it.

You can try installing the latest update for Office 2010, which includes the fix for this issue. You can download the update from the Microsoft Download Center or use the Microsoft Update service to install it.

If you are unable to install the latest update, you can try uninstalling the KB4484127 update. To do this, follow these steps:

1. Open the Control Panel and go to Programs and Features.
2. Click on View installed updates.
3. Locate the KB4484127 update and click on Uninstall.
4. Follow the prompts to complete the uninstallation process.

After uninstalling the update, you should be able to run your queries without any issues. However, it is recommended to install the latest update as soon as possible to ensure that your system is secure and up-to-date.

--------
