
# Post \#65605296 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65605296/)

## Return Excel VBA Macro OneDrive Local Path - Possible Lead

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 5227 (517/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-641

Created at 2021-01-07 00:59:33

Tags: `excel` `vba` `sharepoint` `onedrive`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a spreadsheet that many people need to access (on sharepoint), for a few reasons, we need to do this locally (synced).
however, there are constantly problems and errors arising due to knowledge levels of each user, the spreadsheet needs to have structure and consistency,  so in order to achieve that, i have created a userform with a suite of parameters to help people enter accurate data and avoid errors.
it is a tender register, used to enter client, client contact and tender information, which generates a quote number, folder and file name etc.
prior to OneDrive/Sharepoint path change (previously the file path would be local, now it is a sharepoint URL)
i had a macro that would run when a user clicked a button, that would create an appropriately named folder in the relevant local sharepoint directory, create a standard set of folders within that folder (Client Documents, Contract, Product Files, Drawings etc.) then open a Tender Form and save it in the created folder. the filename (the quote number) was used to lookup a query from the Tender register to return all the client/contact/quote information.
since sharepoint has changed it's path protocol from local to URL, i can't get this to work, resulting in a manual process, therefore, resulting in errors and inconsitencies.
i have searched high and low for ways to create folders and files on sharepoint using VBA, and also for ways to interact with the local path other than disabling "Use Office applications to sync Office files that I Open" (this function is required due to file collaboration.)
I had one hope when i found a way to convert a URL to a Local path, however, this isn't the best solution as each user syncs folders at different levels (maybe there is a way someone could help me with determining the path, a macro to search in the OneDrive directory for folder "2021 Tenders" and return the path... think this might be slow though)
however, i noticed if i goto File > Info, there is a button for "Open File Location" which takes me directly to the local path folder of the file, which tells me this information is somewhere in excel, there must be a way to retrieve it, i haven't seen reference to this in any of my searches, upon pointing it out, does anyone have any ideas on how or if this could work?
i tried to record a macro, but it didn't register it at all.
any help would be appreciated and thank you in advance.
[File > Info - Screenshot](https://i.stack.imgur.com/2uQds.png)
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/vAQkE.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Based on your description, it seems like you're trying to automate the process of creating folders and files on SharePoint using VBA and also trying to retrieve the local path of the SharePoint file.

Unfortunately, VBA doesn't support creating folders or files on SharePoint directly. However, you can use the SharePoint REST API to create folders and files. You can call the REST API from VBA using the `MSXML2.ServerXMLHTTP` object. Here is an example of how to create a folder using the SharePoint REST API:

```vba
Sub CreateFolder()

    Dim objXMLHTTP As Object
    Set objXMLHTTP = CreateObject("MSXML2.ServerXMLHTTP.6.0")

    Dim strURL As String
    strURL = "https://<your-sharepoint-site>/_api/web/folders"

    objXMLHTTP.Open "POST", strURL, False
    objXMLHTTP.setRequestHeader "Content-Type", "application/json;odata=verbose"
    objXMLHTTP.setRequestHeader "Accept", "application/json;odata=verbose"
    objXMLHTTP.setRequestHeader "X-RequestDigest", "<your-form-digest-value>"

    Dim strBody As String
    strBody = "{ '__metadata': { 'type': 'SP.Folder' }, 'ServerRelativeUrl': '/Shared Documents/<your-folder-name>' }"

    objXMLHTTP.send strBody

End Sub
```
Please replace `<your-sharepoint-site>`, `<your-form-digest-value>`, and `<your-folder-name>` with your actual SharePoint site URL, form digest value, and folder name respectively.

To retrieve the local path of the SharePoint file, you can use the `ActiveWorkbook.Path` property in VBA. This property returns the complete, saved path to the workbook file, including the name of the workbook. If the workbook has never been saved, this property returns an empty string.

```vba
Sub GetLocalPath()

    Dim strPath As String
    strPath = ActiveWorkbook.Path

    MsgBox strPath

End Sub
```
Please note that the `ActiveWorkbook.Path` property will return the SharePoint URL if the workbook is opened from SharePoint. If you want to get the local path of the synced SharePoint folder, you may need to parse the SharePoint URL and replace it with the local path manually.

I hope this helps! If you have any further questions, please let me know.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you're dealing with a complex issue. Unfortunately, Excel VBA doesn't have native support for SharePoint and OneDrive operations. However, there are a few workarounds that you might consider.

1. **Use SharePoint REST API**: SharePoint provides a REST API that you can use to interact with SharePoint data in a more structured way. You can use this API to create folders, upload files, and perform other operations. This would require some knowledge of HTTP and REST, but there are many resources available online to help you get started.

2. **Use Office 365 CLI**: Office 365 CLI is a command-line interface that allows you to manage your Office 365 tenant. You can use it to perform operations on SharePoint and OneDrive, including creating folders and uploading files. You can call Office 365 CLI commands from VBA using the Shell function.

3. **Use a third-party library**: There are third-party libraries available that provide a more user-friendly interface for interacting with SharePoint and OneDrive from VBA. One such library is SharePoint Client Object Model, which allows you to interact with SharePoint data using a set of easy-to-use objects and methods.

As for retrieving the local path of a file stored on OneDrive, you might try using the `ActiveWorkbook.Path` property in VBA. This property returns the full path of the workbook, which should include the local OneDrive path if the workbook is stored on OneDrive.

Here is a sample code snippet:

```vba
Sub GetLocalPath()
    Dim localPath As String
    localPath = ActiveWorkbook.Path
    MsgBox localPath
End Sub
```

This code will display a message box with the local path of the active workbook. If the workbook is stored on OneDrive, the path should start with something like "C:\Users\YourUsername\OneDrive".

Please note that these are just possible solutions and might not work in all scenarios. It's always a good idea to test different approaches and see what works best for your specific situation.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems you're trying to automate the process of creating folders and files on SharePoint using VBA, but the change in SharePoint's path protocol from local to URL is causing issues. 

Unfortunately, VBA doesn't support creating folders or files directly on SharePoint. However, there are a few workarounds you can try:

1. **WebDAV**: SharePoint supports the WebDAV protocol, which allows you to interact with SharePoint as if it were a local file system. You can map a network drive to the SharePoint library and then use VBA to interact with it as if it were a local drive. However, this method has some limitations, such as the inability to work with files larger than 50 MB.

2. **SharePoint REST API**: SharePoint provides a REST API that you can use to interact with SharePoint programmatically. You can use this API to create folders, upload files, and perform other operations. However, this method requires a good understanding of HTTP and REST, and it may not be suitable for all users.

3. **Power Automate (formerly Microsoft Flow)**: Power Automate is a cloud-based service provided by Microsoft to automate workflows across multiple applications and services. You can use Power Automate to create a workflow that creates folders and files on SharePoint when certain conditions are met. This method requires no coding, but it does require a Power Automate license.

As for retrieving the local path of a file, you can use the `ActiveWorkbook.Path` property in VBA to get the path of the workbook that contains the macro. This will return the local path if the workbook is stored on a local drive, or the URL if the workbook is stored on SharePoint. 

If you want to get the local path of a SharePoint file, you can use the `ActiveWorkbook.FullName` property, which returns the full path of the workbook, including the file name and extension. However, this will return the URL if the workbook is stored on SharePoint.

Unfortunately, there's no built-in way in VBA to convert a SharePoint URL to a local path. You would need to write a custom function to do this, and it would likely involve parsing the URL and making assumptions about the structure of your SharePoint site and the local file system.

--------
