
# Post \#72806674 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72806674/)

## how copy text from vba to windows clipbaord

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 767 (679/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-15-629

Created at 2022-06-29 19:11:03

Tags: `vba` `clipboard`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `vba` (full parsed tag list: `vba`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an ms access vba code from which i wish to copy some text value to the Windows clipboard so that I can paste it elsewhere (Word/Excel/Notepad/etc).
I have been searching for this in SO but everything seems over-complicated.
Should it not be something simple like
clipboard.SetText textValue
?
EDIT
I tried following the hint by BrianMStafford but don't succeed. Perhaps the reason is that my object is a node in a tree.
When I do
> MsgBox Me.NodeKey.Value
it all works fine - I see the node path in the message box.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/7z2xq.png)
But when I do
> Me.NodeKey.SetFocus
DoCmd.RunCommand acCmdCopy
I don't get the node path in the clipboard
So how can I copy the node path value into the Windows clipboard?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can try using the `Clipboard.SetText` method to copy the text value to the Windows clipboard. Here's an example code snippet that you can modify to suit your needs:

```
Dim objData As New DataObject
objData.SetText Me.NodeKey.Value
objData.PutInClipboard
```

This code creates a new `DataObject` and sets its text value to the `NodeKey.Value`. Then it puts the data object in the clipboard using the `PutInClipboard` method. 

If you're still having trouble copying the node path value to the clipboard, you can try using the `SendKeys` method to simulate the Ctrl+C keystroke combination. Here's an example code snippet:

```
Me.NodeKey.SetFocus
DoCmd.RunCommand acCmdSelectRecord
DoCmd.RunCommand acCmdCopy
```

This code sets the focus on the `NodeKey` control, selects the record, and then copies it to the clipboard using the `acCmdCopy` command. 

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `Clipboard.SetText` method to copy the text value to the Windows clipboard. Here's an example code snippet:

```
Dim textValue As String
textValue = "Your text value here"
Clipboard.SetText textValue
```

Regarding your issue with copying the node path value into the Windows clipboard, you can try using the `DoCmd.RunCommand acCmdCopy` method after setting the focus to the node key control. Here's an example code snippet:

```
Me.NodeKey.SetFocus
DoCmd.RunCommand acCmdCopy
```

If this doesn't work, you can try using the `SendKeys` method to simulate the Ctrl+C key combination. Here's an example code snippet:

```
Me.NodeKey.SetFocus
SendKeys "^c"
```

This should copy the node path value to the Windows clipboard.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can try using the following code to copy the value of the node to the clipboard:

```
Dim objData As New DataObject
objData.SetText Me.NodeKey.Value
objData.PutInClipboard
```

This code creates a new `DataObject` and sets its text to the value of `Me.NodeKey.Value`. Then, it puts the data object in the clipboard using the `PutInClipboard` method. This should copy the value to the Windows clipboard and allow you to paste it elsewhere.

--------
