
# Post \#60859527 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60859527/)

## How to solve "pdftk: Bad CPU type in executable" on Mac?

**Vote**: 56 (116/702) **Views**: 21276 (290/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-646

Created at 2020-03-26 00:52:42

Tags: `macos` `terminal` `pdftk`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to use pdftk but I always get this error `zsh: bad CPU type in executable: pdftk` I reinstalled pdftk and I changed the terminal from bsh to zsh as I found in my search for how to solve this error but without any success. I'm using the latest MacOS version "Catalina v10.15.4"


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are seeing indicates that the version of pdftk you are trying to use is not compatible with the CPU architecture of your Mac. This is likely because pdftk was compiled for an older version of MacOS that used a different CPU architecture.

Unfortunately, pdftk is no longer actively maintained and does not support MacOS Catalina or newer versions. However, there are alternative tools that you can use to manipulate PDF files on your Mac.

One popular alternative is to use the built-in Preview app that comes with MacOS. Preview has many features for editing and manipulating PDF files, including merging, splitting, and rearranging pages.

Another option is to use a third-party tool like Adobe Acrobat or PDF Expert. These tools offer more advanced features for working with PDF files, but they also come with a cost.

If you still want to use pdftk, you may need to try running it in a virtual machine or using a compatibility layer like Wine. However, these solutions can be complex and may not work reliably.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you are seeing indicates that the version of pdftk you are trying to use is not compatible with your CPU architecture. This is a common issue on newer versions of MacOS, as pdftk was originally designed for 32-bit systems and newer versions of MacOS only support 64-bit applications.

One solution to this problem is to use a different tool to manipulate PDF files. There are many alternatives to pdftk that are compatible with newer versions of MacOS, such as PDFsam, PDFtk Server, and QPDF.

If you still want to use pdftk, you can try installing a version that is compatible with your CPU architecture. You can check your CPU architecture by opening the Terminal and running the command `uname -m`. If the output is `x86_64`, you have a 64-bit CPU and you should download a 64-bit version of pdftk. If the output is `i386` or `ppc`, you have a 32-bit CPU and you should download a 32-bit version of pdftk.

You can download a compatible version of pdftk from the following website: https://www.pdflabs.com/tools/pdftk-the-pdf-toolkit/. Make sure to select the appropriate version for your CPU architecture.

Once you have downloaded the compatible version of pdftk, you can try running it again in the Terminal. If you still encounter issues, you may need to adjust your system settings to allow the application to run. You can do this by going to System Preferences > Security & Privacy > General and clicking the "Allow" button next to the message that says "pdftk was blocked from use because it is not from an identified developer."

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you are seeing indicates that the version of pdftk you are trying to use is not compatible with the CPU architecture of your Mac. This is a common issue on newer versions of MacOS, as pdftk is a 32-bit application and MacOS Catalina only supports 64-bit applications.

One solution to this problem is to use an alternative tool that is compatible with 64-bit MacOS, such as PDFtk Server or QPDF. Both of these tools can perform many of the same tasks as pdftk, and can be installed using Homebrew or other package managers.

To install PDFtk Server using Homebrew, you can run the following command in your terminal:

```
brew install pdftk-java
```

This will install the Java-based version of PDFtk Server, which can be used to manipulate PDF files from the command line.

To install QPDF using Homebrew, you can run the following command:

```
brew install qpdf
```

QPDF is a more lightweight tool than PDFtk Server, but it can still perform many common PDF manipulation tasks.

Once you have installed one of these tools, you can use it to perform the same tasks that you would with pdftk. For example, to merge two PDF files using PDFtk Server, you could run the following command:

```
pdftk file1.pdf file2.pdf cat output merged.pdf
```

To achieve the same result using QPDF, you could run the following command:

```
qpdf --empty --pages file1.pdf file2.pdf -- merged.pdf
```

I hope this helps you to solve your problem!

--------
