
# Post \#56784894 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56784894/)

## macOS Catalina 10.15(beta) - Why is ~/.bash_profile not sourced by my shell?

**Vote**: 148 (35/702) **Views**: 101827 (83/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-690

Created at 2019-06-27 06:08:50

Tags: `bash` `shell` `environment-variables` `zsh` `macos-catalina`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to set the environment variable I added below the line to `~/.bash_profile` and `~/.profile` but it didn't work.

```
export JBOSS_HOME=/Users/{USERNAME}/Desktop/jboss7
```


Afterward, exit the terminal and open it again when executing `echo $JBOSS_HOME` I get nothing.

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/i8pyb.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To set the environment variable permanently, you need to add the export command to the `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.profile` file. Here are the steps to do it:

1. Open the terminal and type the following command to open the `~/.bash_profile` file:

```
nano ~/.bash_profile
```

2. Add the following line at the end of the file:

```
export JBOSS_HOME=/Users/{USERNAME}/Desktop/jboss7
```

Note: Replace `{USERNAME}` with your actual username.

3. Save the file by pressing `Ctrl+X`, then `Y`, and then `Enter`.

4. Type the following command to reload the `~/.bash_profile` file:

```
source ~/.bash_profile
```

5. Verify that the environment variable is set by typing the following command:

```
echo $JBOSS_HOME
```

You should see the path to your JBoss installation directory.

If you still can't see the environment variable, try adding the export command to the `~/.profile` file as well and repeat the above steps.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To set the environment variable permanently, you need to add the export statement to the `~/.bash_profile` file. Here are the steps to do it:

1. Open the Terminal app.
2. Type `nano ~/.bash_profile` and press Enter. This will open the `~/.bash_profile` file in the nano text editor.
3. Add the following line at the end of the file:

```
export JBOSS_HOME=/Users/{USERNAME}/Desktop/jboss7
```

4. Press `Ctrl+O` to save the file and `Ctrl+X` to exit nano.
5. Type `source ~/.bash_profile` to reload the `~/.bash_profile` file.
6. Type `echo $JBOSS_HOME` to verify that the environment variable is set correctly.

Now, the environment variable should be set permanently and you should be able to access it from any terminal session.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To set the environment variable permanently, you need to add the export command to the `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.profile` file. Here's how you can do it:

1. Open the `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.profile` file in a text editor. You can use the following command to open the file in the nano editor:

   ```
   nano ~/.bash_profile
   ```

2. Add the following line at the end of the file:

   ```
   export JBOSS_HOME=/Users/{USERNAME}/Desktop/jboss7
   ```

   Replace `{USERNAME}` with your actual username.

3. Save the file by pressing `Ctrl+O` and then `Ctrl+X` to exit nano.

4. To apply the changes, either restart your terminal or run the following command:

   ```
   source ~/.bash_profile
   ```

   This will reload the `~/.bash_profile` file and apply the changes.

5. Finally, run the following command to check if the environment variable is set correctly:

   ```
   echo $JBOSS_HOME
   ```

   If everything is set up correctly, you should see the path to your JBoss installation.

--------
