
# Post \#53229221 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53229221/)

## Terminal error: zsh: permission denied: ./startup.sh

**Vote**: 118 (43/702) **Views**: 307793 (20/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-644

Created at 2018-11-09 16:01:15

Tags: `macos` `nginx` `terminal` `sh`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am running a command
```
./startup.sh nginx:start
```

and I am getting this error message
```
zsh: permission denied: ./startup.sh
```

why could this be happening?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message "permission denied" typically means that the script `startup.sh` does not have the necessary execute permissions. 

You can add execute permissions to the script by running the following command:

```bash
chmod +x startup.sh
```

This command changes the mode of the script to include execute permissions for the user. After running this command, you should be able to start the script with `./startup.sh nginx:start`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message "zsh: permission denied: ./startup.sh" means that the script `startup.sh` does not have the necessary permissions to execute.

This usually happens when the file's permissions do not allow execution. In Unix-like operating systems, you need to have execute ('x') permission to run a script like `startup.sh`.

You can add execute permissions to the script by running the following command:

```
chmod +x startup.sh
```

This command changes the mode of the file to add (+) execute (x) permissions. After running this command, you should be able to start the script with `./startup.sh nginx:start`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing typically means that the `startup.sh` script does not have execute permissions. In Unix-like operating systems, in order to run a script directly from the command line, you need to have execute (`x`) permissions on the script file.

You can add execute permissions to the `startup.sh` script with the following command:

```
chmod +x startup.sh
```

After running this command, you should be able to start the script with `./startup.sh nginx:start`.

If you still encounter issues, it could be due to the following reasons:

1. The file system is mounted with `noexec` option. You can check this by running `mount` command.
2. The script does not have a proper shebang at the top. The shebang is the first line in the script and it specifies the interpreter for the script. For a shell script, it should be `#!/bin/sh` or `#!/bin/bash`.
3. The user you are running the script as does not have the necessary permissions. In this case, you may need to run the script as a different user or modify the file permissions appropriately.

--------
