
# Post \#49859457 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49859457/)

## How to reinstall the latest cmake version?

**Vote**: 50 (122/702) **Views**: 146134 (53/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-673

Created at 2018-04-16 14:13:44

Tags: `linux` `bash` `ubuntu` `cmake`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like to install cmake the latest version, on Linux environment. I have cmake version 3.5 installed and is not supported by some applications. I tried to upgrade it by uninstalling the current version. But when I reinstall with sudo apt-get install cmake, I get the same version 3.5 re-installed. How do I install the latest version with sudo apt-get install ....? 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The problem you're facing is because the version of cmake in the official Ubuntu repositories may not be the latest. To get the latest version, you can download it from the official CMake website. Here are the steps:

1. First, remove the existing version of cmake:

```bash
sudo apt-get remove cmake
```

2. Then, download the latest version of cmake from the official website. As of now, the latest version is 3.21.1. You can download it using wget:

```bash
wget https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/releases/download/v3.21.1/cmake-3.21.1.tar.gz
```

3. Extract the downloaded file:

```bash
tar -xzvf cmake-3.21.1.tar.gz
```

4. Navigate to the extracted directory:

```bash
cd cmake-3.21.1/
```

5. Now, run the bootstrap script:

```bash
./bootstrap
```

6. Once the bootstrap script is done, compile the source code:

```bash
make
```

7. Finally, install cmake:

```bash
sudo make install
```

8. Verify the installed version of cmake:

```bash
cmake --version
```

This should show you the version 3.21.1 (or whatever the latest version you installed).

Please note that compiling from source like this will take some time. Be patient and wait for the process to complete.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're facing is because the version of cmake in the official Ubuntu repositories might not be the latest one. To get the latest version, you can download it from the official CMake website.

Here are the steps to install the latest version of cmake:

1. First, remove the existing version of cmake:

```
sudo apt-get remove cmake
```

2. Then, download the latest version of cmake from the official website. At the time of writing, the latest version is 3.21.1. Replace `3.21.1` with the latest version number if it's different:

```
wget https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/releases/download/v3.21.1/cmake-3.21.1.tar.gz
```

3. Extract the downloaded file:

```
tar -xzvf cmake-3.21.1.tar.gz
```

4. Navigate to the extracted directory:

```
cd cmake-3.21.1
```

5. Now, run the bootstrap script:

```
./bootstrap
```

6. Once the bootstrap process is complete, compile the source code:

```
make
```

7. Finally, install cmake:

```
sudo make install
```

8. Verify the installed version of cmake:

```
cmake --version
```

This should now show the latest version of cmake that you've just installed.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The reason you're getting the same version re-installed is because the version in the Ubuntu repositories is not the latest one. To install the latest version of cmake, you can download it from the official website and compile it from source. Here are the steps:

1. First, you need to uninstall the existing version of cmake:

    ```
    sudo apt-get remove cmake
    ```

2. Then, update your system:

    ```
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    ```

3. Install required packages:

    ```
    sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
    ```

4. Download the latest version of cmake from the official website. You can do this with wget. Replace "3.21.1" with the version you want to install:

    ```
    wget https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/releases/download/v3.21.1/cmake-3.21.1.tar.gz
    ```

5. Extract the downloaded file:

    ```
    tar -xzvf cmake-3.21.1.tar.gz
    ```

6. Go to the extracted directory:

    ```
    cd cmake-3.21.1
    ```

7. Now, you can compile and install cmake:

    ```
    ./bootstrap
    make -j$(nproc)
    sudo make install
    ```

8. Verify the installed version of cmake:

    ```
    cmake --version
    ```

This should output the version you just installed.

--------
