
# Post \#72246463 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72246463/)

## Is there a globbing pattern to match by file extension, both PWD and recursively?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 796 (677/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-663

Created at 2022-05-15 07:53:10

Tags: `regex` `linux` `bash` `glob`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash` `regex`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

[globbing](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30229465/what-is-file-globbing)
- [Match all files under all nested directories with shell globbing](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4349082/match-all-files-under-all-nested-directories-with-shell-globbing)- [grep search all directories with filename extension](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72245606/grep-search-all-directories-with-filename-extension)- [grep recursively, but only in files with certain extensions (plural)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12516937/how-can-i-grep-recursively-but-only-in-files-with-certain-extensions)- `set -o globstar; ls **/*.*`- `ls **/*.php`- `set -o globstar; **/*.php`- `grep -r --include=\*.php "find me" ./``grep`[this Question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4349082/match-all-files-under-all-nested-directories-with-shell-globbing)`grep``--include=GLOB`
From [this Answer (here)](https://stackoverflow.com/a/72246808/10343144), I believe there may not be a way to do this using globbing.

# tl;dr


I need:
- - `ls``sed``cp``cat``chown``rm`- - - 
I'm using `grep` & `ls` only as examples, but I need a glob expression that applies to other commands also.
- `grep -r --include=GLOB``cp``grep`- `find``grep``|``while do;`

## Examples


Suppose I have these files, all containing "find me":
```
./file1.js
./file2.php
./inc/file3.js
./inc/file4.php
./inc.php/file5.js
./inc.php/file6.php
```

I need to match only/all  one time:
```
./file2.php
./inc/file4.php
./inc.php/file6.php
```


## Duplicates returned: shopt -s globstar; ... **/*.php


This changes the problem; it does not solve it.

### Dup: ls


 entering `shopt -s globstar` as a single command...
`ls **/*.php` returns:
```
inc/file4.php
inc.php/file5.js
inc.php/file6.php
```

- 
 entering `shopt -s globstar` as a single command...
`ls **/*.php` returns:
```
file2.php
inc/file4.php
inc.php/file6.php

inc.php:
file5.js
file6.php
```

- 

### Dup: grep


 entering `shopt -s globstar` as a single command...
`grep -R "find me" **/*.php` returns:
```
inc/file4.php: find me
inc.php/file6.php: find me
```

- 
 entering `shopt -s globstar` as a single command...
`grep -R "find me" **/*.php` returns:
```
file2.php: find me
inc/file4.php: find me
inc.php/file5.js: find me
inc.php/file6.php: find me
inc.php/file6.php: find me
```

- - `ls`

## Current solution: faulty misuse of && logic


```
grep -r "find me" *.php && grep -r "find me" */*.php
ls -l *.php && ls -l */*.php
```

- `I fail here && so I never happen`

## Desired solution: single command via globbing


```
grep -r "find me" [GLOB]
ls -l [GLOB]
```


---



## Insight from grep


`grep` does have the `--include` flag, which achieves the same result but using a flag specific to `grep`. `ls` does not have an `--include` option. This leads me to believe that there is no such glob expression, which is why `grep` has this flag.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Based on your description, it seems like you want to use a single glob pattern that can match files in the current directory and all subdirectories, but only for certain file extensions. Unfortunately, there's no single glob pattern that can do this in all shells. However, there are a few ways to achieve this depending on the shell and tools you're using.

1. **Bash with globstar option**: If you're using Bash, you can enable the `globstar` shell option, which allows the `**` pattern to match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a `/`, only directories and subdirectories match.

    ```bash
    shopt -s globstar
    grep -r "find me" **/*.php
    ```

    This will search for the string "find me" in all `.php` files in the current directory and all subdirectories.

2. **find command**: Another way to achieve this is using the `find` command, which can search for files in a directory hierarchy. You can use it with the `-exec` option to run a command on each file that matches certain criteria.

    ```bash
    find . -name "*.php" -exec grep "find me" {} \;
    ```

    This will find all `.php` files in the current directory and all subdirectories, and run the `grep "find me"` command on each of them.

3. **grep with --include option**: As you mentioned, `grep` has an `--include` option that you can use to only search in files that match a certain pattern.

    ```bash
    grep -r --include="*.php" "find me" .
    ```

    This will do a recursive search in the current directory, but only in files that match the `*.php` pattern.

Remember that these methods are not using a single glob pattern, but they achieve the same result. If you need to use this with other commands, you might need to find similar options or ways to use them with these commands.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you want to use a glob expression to match all files with a specific extension in the current directory and all its subdirectories. The globbing feature you're referring to is called "globstar". It's a feature in Bash 4.0 and later that allows you to use `**` to match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories.

To enable globstar, you can use the command `shopt -s globstar`.

Then, you can use it like this:

```bash
ls **/*.php
```

This will list all PHP files in the current directory and all its subdirectories. 

However, if you want to avoid duplicate entries when directories are also matched, you can use the `find` command instead:

```bash
find . -name "*.php"
```

This will find all PHP files in the current directory and all its subdirectories, without returning duplicates.

For `grep`, you can use the `-r` (or `--recursive`) option to read all files under each directory, and the `--include` option to search only files that match the file pattern. Here's how you can use it:

```bash
grep -r --include="*.php" "find me" .
```

This will search for the string "find me" in all PHP files in the current directory and all its subdirectories.

These commands should work with any other command that accepts file names as arguments. However, the exact syntax might vary depending on the command. For example, some commands might not support the `**` glob, or might require a different option to recurse into subdirectories.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Globbing is a feature provided by Unix/Linux shells where wildcard characters are used to match filenames and directories. It is used in various Unix commands to perform operations on multiple files. 

The `**` pattern is used to match files and directories recursively. However, it's not enabled by default in all shells. In bash, you need to enable it with `shopt -s globstar`.

If you want to match all PHP files in the current directory and all subdirectories, you can use the following command:

```bash
shopt -s globstar
ls **/*.php
```

This command will list all PHP files in the current directory and all subdirectories.

If you want to use `grep` to search for a specific string in all PHP files in the current directory and all subdirectories, you can use the following command:

```bash
shopt -s globstar
grep -r --include=\*.php "find me" ./
```

This command will search for the string "find me" in all PHP files in the current directory and all subdirectories.

However, as you mentioned, this might return duplicate results if there are symbolic links that point to the same file. To avoid this, you can use the `-l` option with `grep` which will stop after the first match in a file:

```bash
shopt -s globstar
grep -rl --include=\*.php "find me" ./
```

This command will return the names of the files that contain the string "find me", without duplicates.

As for the other commands you mentioned (`sed`, `cp`, `cat`, `chown`, `rm`), you can use globbing in a similar way. For example, if you want to copy all PHP files from the current directory and all subdirectories to another directory, you can use the following command:

```bash
shopt -s globstar
cp **/*.php /path/to/destination/
```

This command will copy all PHP files from the current directory and all subdirectories to the specified destination directory.

--------
