
# Post \#53839253 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53839253/)

## How can I convert an array into a comma separated string?

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 47045 (171/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-665

Created at 2018-12-18 18:42:16

Tags: `arrays` `bash` `shell`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an array and I am printing it like this:

```
echo "${data[*]}"
```




```
/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_1.xml 
/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_2.xml
```


I want to store the above output as a comma separated value. How can I achieve this in Bash?

The data array is dynamic, it may have any number of values.


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 53

Created at 2018-12-18 18:55:13

------------

There are a few ways to do this:
1. `printf` (via [Charles Duffy’s comment](https://stackoverflow.com/q/53839253/519360#comment94527502_53839433))
```
printf -v joined '%s,' "${data[@]}"
echo "${joined%,}"
```

The `printf` builtin implicitly joins arrays. You could print interactively like 3a below with a one-liner reading `printf '%s,' "${data[@]}"`, but you'd be left with a trailing comma. (This method even works in POSIX shell, though you'd have to use `$@` as your array since POSIX can't handle other array types).
2. `$IFS` (via [chepner’s answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/53839647/519360))
```
join_arr() {
  local IFS="$1"
  shift
  echo "$*"
}

join_arr , "${data[@]}"
```

This redefines the field separator within just the scope of this function so when the `$data` array is automatically expanded, it uses the desired delimiter instead of the first value of the global `$IFS` or (if it's empty or undefined) space.
This could be done without a function, but there's some nastiness about preserving `$IFS`: [Charles Duffy notes that](https://stackoverflow.com/q/53839253/519360#comment94529492_53839385) reverting `IFS="$OLD_IFS"` after temporarily reassigning it could evaluate to `IFS=""`, but if `$IFS` was previously undefined, that's different from `unset IFS` and while it's possible to tease those apart, this functional approach is far cleaner thanks to its use of `local` to limit `$IFS`’s scope.
This solution only supports single-character delimiters. See #5 below for a similar function that supports delimiters of any length.
3a.  (and print incrementally)
```
delim=""
for item in "${data[@]}"; do
  printf "%s" "$delim$item"
  delim=","
done
echo # add a newline
```

If other code in that loop involves an external call (or even `sleep 0.1`), you'll actually  this build piece by piece, which can be helpful in an interactive setting.
3b.  (and build a variable)
```
delim=""
joined=""
for item in "${data[@]}"; do
  joined="$joined$delim$item"
  delim=","
done
echo "$joined"
```

4.  (note, the array must lack spaces*)
```
data_string="${data[*]}"
echo "${data_string//${IFS:0:1}/,}"
```

* This will only work if the first character of `$IFS` (space by default) does  exist in any of the array's items.
This uses bash pattern substitution: `${parameter//pattern/string}` will replace each instance of `pattern` in `$parameter` with `string`. In this case, `string` is `${IFS:0:1}`, the substring of `$IFS` starting at the beginning and ending after one character.
Z Shell (`zsh`) can do this in one nested parameter expansion:
```
echo "${${data[@]}//${IFS:0:1}/,}"
```

(Though Z Shell can also do it more elegantly with its dedicated `join` flag as `echo "${(j:,:)data}"` as [noted by @DavidBaynard](https://stackoverflow.com/q/53839253/519360#comment121563199_53839433) in a comment below this answer.)
5.  in an implicit loop (via [Nicholas Sushkin's answer to a duplicate question](https://stackoverflow.com/a/17841619/519360))
```
join_by() {
  local d="${1-}" f="${2-}"
  if shift 2; then
    printf %s "$f" "${@/#/$d}"
  fi
}

join_by , "${data[@]}"
```

This is very similar to #2 above (via chepner), but it uses pattern substitution rather than `$IFS` and therefore supports multi-character delimiters. `$d` saves the delimiter and `$f` saves the first item in the array (I'll say why in a moment). The real magic is `${@/#/$d}`, which replaces the beginning (`#`) of each array element with the delimiter (`$d`). As you don't want to start with a delimiter, this uses `shift` to get past not only the delimiter argument but also the first array element (saved as `$f`), which is then printed right in front of the replacement.
`printf` has an odd behavior when you give it extra arguments as we do here. The template (`%s`) only specifies that there will be one argument, so the rest of the arguments act as if it's a loop and they're all concatenated onto each other. Consider changing that key line to `printf "%s\n" "$f" "${@/#/$d}"`. You'll end up with a newline after each element. If you want a trailing newline after printing the joined array, do it with `printf %s "$f" "${@/#/$d}" $'\n'` (we need to use the `$'…'` notation to tell bash to interpret the escape; another way to do this would be to insert a literal newline, but then the code looks weird).


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 12

Created at 2018-12-18 19:14:24

------------

To make it easier to localize the change of `IFS`, use a function:

```
join () {
  local IFS="$1"
  shift
  echo "$*"
}

join , "${data[@]}"
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 6

Created at 2018-12-18 18:52:33

------------

If you want to separate with commas, make that be the first character in `IFS`:
```
data=( first second third )
IFS=,
echo "${data[*]}"
```

...emits:
```
first,second,third
```


---


To avoid leaving IFS in a modified state, you can embed this code in a function and declare IFS as local. If you have bash 4.3 or later,  support can be used to parameterize the variable output is saved to without the overhead of a subshell:
```
comma_sep() {
  local -n comma_sep__dest=$1; shift || return
  local IFS=,
  comma_sep__dest=$*
}

comma_sep result "${data[@]}"
echo "$result" # prints first,second,third
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 6

Created at 2019-06-18 16:44:58

------------

For ksh, try this!

```
foo=`echo $(echo ${data[@]}) | tr ' ' ','`
```


In this way you can control the delimiter by translating the space (default) to comma! (or any other you can think of) :)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#4

 Vote: 3

Created at 2022-06-02 16:00:19

------------

One-liner with IFS changed in a sub-command (safe):
```
echo "$(IFS=,; echo "${data[*]}")"
```

Note: As IFS only takes first character, result would be comma separated list of values without space.
```
$ data=(file1 file2 file3)
$ (IFS=,; echo "${data[*]}")
file1,file2,file3

$ printf "%q" "$IFS"
$' \t\n'
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#5

 Vote: 1

Created at 2019-04-12 03:10:07

------------

```
printComma(){
    printf "%s," "${@:1:${#}-1}"
    printf "%s" "${@:${#}}"
}
printNewline(){
    printf "%s\n" "${@:1:${#}-1}"
    echo "${@:${#}}"
}
join () {
  local IFS="$1"
  shift
  echo "$*"
}
declare -a comma=(
    a
    b
    c
)
declare -a newline=(
    xyz
    abc
    def
    ghi
)
echo "\
Comma separated list $(printComma "${comma[@]}")
Newline list: $(printNewline "${newline[@]}")

Comma separated list $(join , "${comma[@]}")
Newline list: $(join \n "${newline[@]}")"
```


```
Comma separated list a,b,c
Newline list: xyz
abc
def
ghi

Comma separated list a,b,c
Newline list: xyznabcndefnghi
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#6

 Vote: 0

Created at 2023-02-10 06:14:52

------------

This approach won't win any awards, but it suits my more complex requirements, which were to change an array with `(foo bar baz)` into comma-seperated strings with spaces, surrounded by escaped double quotes `\"foo\", \"bar\", \"baz\"`, which `IFS` is not well suited for.
```
data=(foo bar baz)
data_str="${data[*]}"
separated_data_str=\"${data_str// /\", \"}\"
```



------------
    
    