
# Post \#72801984 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72801984/)

## Tomcat 9 running on docker - Cannot find /usr/local/tomcat/bin/setclasspath.sh

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 4282 (539/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-667

Created at 2022-06-29 13:09:43

Tags: `docker` `shell` `tomcat` `sh` `catalina`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm running a tomcat (tomcat:9-jre11) on docker, when launching it, it logs the following, then crashes :
```
Cannot find /usr/local/tomcat/bin/setclasspath.sh
This file is needed to run this program
```

My first issue was actually getting inside the container because I can't use docker exec on a crashed container, but I managed it by setting an entry point as /bin/bash in Rancher.
Now setclasspath.sh is very much in the /usr/local/tomcat/bin/ inside the container. It previously had all read and execution rights, I've set it to 777 just to be sure, still have the same issue. Same goes with changing the owner (tomcat seems to be using root, even if I launch the catalina.sh manually on another user, having changed the file owner). I used the heavy handed approch and set the whole damn folder as 777, and still the same :
```
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root   4096 Jun 29 14:53 .
drwxr-xr-x 1 root root   4096 Jun 29 14:31 ..
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root  34699 Jun  2 21:08 bootstrap.jar
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root  25523 Jun 29 14:00 catalina.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1664 Jun  2 21:08 catalina-tasks.xml
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   2007 Jun 28 03:01 ciphers.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root  25410 Jun  2 21:08 commons-daemon.jar
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root 211777 Jun  2 21:08 commons-daemon-native.tar.gz
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1932 Jun 28 03:01 configtest.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   9110 Jun 28 03:01 daemon.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1975 Jun 28 03:01 digest.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   3392 Jun 28 03:01 makebase.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   3718 Jun 28 03:01 setclasspath.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1912 Jun 28 03:01 shutdown.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1914 Jun 28 03:01 startup.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root  46898 Jun  2 21:08 tomcat-juli.jar
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   5550 Jun 28 03:01 tool-wrapper.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1918 Jun 28 03:01 version.sh
```

I've looked at the catalina.sh script, the part which cause the issue is the following :
```
if [ -r "$CATALINA_HOME"/bin/setclasspath.sh ]; then
    . "$CATALINA_HOME"/bin/setclasspath.sh
  else
    echo "Cannot find $CATALINA_HOME/bin/setclasspath.sh"
    echo "This file is needed to run this program"
  fi
```

The  inside the condition is borked. I've read it looked if the file exists and is readable, it fill all conditions. I've added elif with  and  condition and the do return true, but the rights seems to be the issue despite them being set to 777 or not. I've add a whoami inside the script as well, and it's the root user, so not an issue of ownership.
The startup.sh script has a similar issue, with a -x condition, where it cannot find the catalina.sh ...


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the issue is not with the file permissions or ownership, but with the environment variable `CATALINA_HOME`. The error message suggests that the script is unable to find the `setclasspath.sh` file in the specified directory.

You can try setting the `CATALINA_HOME` environment variable explicitly in your Dockerfile or in the container's environment variables. For example, add the following line to your Dockerfile:

```
ENV CATALINA_HOME /usr/local/tomcat
```

Alternatively, you can try modifying the `catalina.sh` script to print out the value of `CATALINA_HOME` and make sure it is set correctly. You can add the following line before the `if` statement:

```
echo "CATALINA_HOME is set to $CATALINA_HOME"
```

This will print out the value of `CATALINA_HOME` to the console when the script is run.

If the issue persists, you can try running the container with the `--privileged` flag to see if it is a permission issue. However, this is not recommended for security reasons and should only be used as a last resort.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the issue is not with the file permissions, but with the environment variable `CATALINA_HOME`. The error message indicates that the script cannot find the `setclasspath.sh` file in the `$CATALINA_HOME/bin` directory.

You can try setting the `CATALINA_HOME` environment variable explicitly in your Dockerfile or in the container's environment variables. For example, add the following line to your Dockerfile:

```
ENV CATALINA_HOME /usr/local/tomcat
```

Alternatively, you can modify the `catalina.sh` script to explicitly set the `CATALINA_HOME` variable before the `if` statement that checks for the `setclasspath.sh` file. For example:

```
CATALINA_HOME=/usr/local/tomcat

if [ -r "$CATALINA_HOME"/bin/setclasspath.sh ]; then
  . "$CATALINA_HOME"/bin/setclasspath.sh
else
  echo "Cannot find $CATALINA_HOME/bin/setclasspath.sh"
  echo "This file is needed to run this program"
fi
```

Make sure to rebuild your Docker image after making any changes to the Dockerfile.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the issue is not with the file permissions or ownership, but with the environment variable `CATALINA_HOME`. The error message indicates that the script is unable to find the `setclasspath.sh` file in the `$CATALINA_HOME/bin` directory.

You can try setting the `CATALINA_HOME` environment variable explicitly in your Dockerfile or in the command used to start the container. For example, you can add the following line to your Dockerfile:

```
ENV CATALINA_HOME /usr/local/tomcat
```

Alternatively, you can pass the environment variable as a command-line argument when starting the container:

```
docker run -e CATALINA_HOME=/usr/local/tomcat tomcat:9-jre11
```

Make sure to replace `/usr/local/tomcat` with the actual path to the Tomcat installation directory inside your container.

Once you have set the `CATALINA_HOME` environment variable, the `setclasspath.sh` script should be found and sourced correctly by the `catalina.sh` script.

--------
