
# Post \#51406685 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51406685/)

## Powershell: How do I install the Nuget provider for PowerShell on a unconnected machine so I can install a nuget package from the PS command line?

**Vote**: 71 (93/702) **Views**: 211681 (35/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-645

Created at 2018-07-18 16:15:24

Tags: `powershell` `nuget`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to install `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg` from the Powershell command line on a Win 7 computer not connected to the internet. I'm running PS  5.1.14409.1005. I obtained the nupkg from [https://www.preview.powershellgallery.com/packages/PSWindowsUpdate/2.0.0.4](https://www.preview.powershellgallery.com/packages/PSWindowsUpdate/2.0.0.4)

The `PS` command `Install-Module -Name pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg -Repository {path to pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg}` throws an error message:

> PowerShellGet requires NuGet provider version '2.8.5.201' or newer to interact with NuGet-based repositories. The NuGet provider must be available in 'C:\Program Files\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies' or 'C:\Users{my login}\AppData\Local\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies'. You can also install the NuGet provider by running 'Install-PackageProvider -Name NuGet -MinimumVersion 2.8.5.201 -Force'. Do you want PowerShell to install and import the NuGet provider now?

Saying 'yes', of course, fails to install the NuGet provider because I'm not connected to the internet.

I obtained `nuget.exe` (v4.7.0), stored it in 'C:\Program Files\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies' and added 'C:\Program Files\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies' to my `path` statement. However, executing `Install-Module -Name pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg -Repository {path to pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg}` still fails.

What exactly is a `NuGet provider`? Is it just nuget.exe? How do I obtain and install the Nuget provider (v2.8.5.201 or greater) for PowerShell so I can install this nuget package from the PowerShell command line?




----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

A NuGet provider for PowerShell is not just the `nuget.exe`. It's a specific package that allows PowerShell to interact with NuGet-based repositories. This provider is necessary for the `Install-Module` cmdlet to work with NuGet packages.

Since your computer is not connected to the internet, you need to manually download the NuGet provider package from another computer that has internet access, then transfer it to your computer.

Here are the steps:

1. On a computer with internet access, open PowerShell and run the following command to download the NuGet provider:

    ```powershell
    Save-Package -Name NuGet -ProviderName NuGet -Path Path\To\Save\To -Force -RequiredVersion 2.8.5.201
    ```

    Replace `Path\To\Save\To` with the path where you want to save the NuGet provider package.

2. This command will download a `.nupkg` file (which is the NuGet provider package) to the specified path.

3. Transfer this `.nupkg` file to your offline computer.

4. On your offline computer, you need to manually install the NuGet provider. Navigate to the directory where you saved the `.nupkg` file and run:

    ```powershell
    Install-Package -Name Path\To\NuGet\nupkg\File -ProviderName NuGet -Force
    ```

    Replace `Path\To\NuGet\nupkg\File` with the path to the `.nupkg` file you transferred.

5. After the NuGet provider is installed, you should be able to install your `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg` package with the `Install-Module` cmdlet.

Please note that the `Save-Package` cmdlet is available in PowerShellGet module version 1.6.0 or newer. If you don't have this version, you'll need to update your PowerShellGet module first.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

A NuGet provider for PowerShell is not just the `nuget.exe`. It's a specific package that allows PowerShell to interact with NuGet-based repositories. It's a plugin for PowerShell's PackageManagement module, which allows PowerShell to understand how to use NuGet repositories.

Since your computer is not connected to the internet, you need to manually download the NuGet provider on a machine that has internet access and then transfer it to your offline machine. Here are the steps:

1. On a machine with internet access, open PowerShell and run the following command to download the NuGet provider:

```powershell
Save-PackageProvider -Name NuGet -Path <Path to save the provider> -RequiredVersion 2.8.5.201 -Force
```

Replace `<Path to save the provider>` with the path where you want to save the NuGet provider. This command will download a `.nupkg` file.

2. Transfer the `.nupkg` file to your offline machine.

3. On your offline machine, open PowerShell and run the following command to install the NuGet provider:

```powershell
Install-PackageProvider -Name NuGet -RequiredVersion 2.8.5.201 -Force
```

4. Then, you can install your `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg` package using the `Install-Package` command:

```powershell
Install-Package -Name pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg -Source {path to pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg}
```

Replace `{path to pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg}` with the actual path where you have the `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg` file.

Please note that the `Install-Package` command is used instead of `Install-Module` because you're installing a `.nupkg` file, which is a NuGet package, not a PowerShell module.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

A NuGet provider for PowerShell is not just the `nuget.exe`. It's a specific package that allows PowerShell to interact with NuGet repositories. It's a .dll file, not an .exe file.

To install a NuGet provider offline, you need to download the `NuGet.Core` package from the NuGet gallery on a machine that has internet access. The URL is https://www.nuget.org/packages/NuGet.Core/. You need version 2.8.5.201 or newer.

After downloading the `NuGet.Core` package, you need to extract the `NuGet.Core.dll` file from it. You can rename the downloaded .nupkg file to .zip and extract it like a regular zip file.

Once you have the `NuGet.Core.dll` file, you need to place it in one of the following directories on the target machine:

- `C:\Program Files\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies`
- `C:\Users{your login}\AppData\Local\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies`

After you've done this, PowerShell should be able to find and use the NuGet provider.

As for installing the `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg` package, you can't use `Install-Module` with a .nupkg file directly. You need to use `Install-Package` instead. Here's how you can do it:

1. Rename the `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg` file to `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.zip` and extract it.
2. Inside the extracted folder, you'll find a `pswindowsupdate` folder. Copy this folder to one of your module paths. You can see your module paths by running `$env:PSModulePath` in PowerShell.
3. After copying the `pswindowsupdate` folder to a module path, you should be able to import the module with `Import-Module pswindowsupdate`.

Please note that this method bypasses the PowerShellGet and PackageManagement modules, so you won't be able to use `Update-Module` to update the module later. You'll have to repeat these steps with the new version of the module.

--------
