
# Post \#60566336 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60566336/)

## How does one output bold text in powershell?

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 25609 (258/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-657

Created at 2020-03-06 14:41:22

Tags: `powershell` `windows-scripting` `write-host`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I got a  script that do some automatic procedures, I use a "Write-Host" at the end of each one of them to tell the technical user that step is finished, but I realize is kind of hard to read and keep track so, ¿Is there a way to output a bold text?

Thank you in advance.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In PowerShell, there isn't a built-in way to output bold text in the console. However, you can change the color of the text to make it stand out, which can be done using the `-ForegroundColor` parameter of the `Write-Host` cmdlet.

Here is an example:

```powershell
Write-Host "This is a message" -ForegroundColor Green
```

In this example, the text "This is a message" will be displayed in green color.

You can choose from various colors like Black, DarkBlue, DarkGreen, DarkCyan, DarkRed, DarkMagenta, DarkYellow, Gray, DarkGray, Blue, Green, Cyan, Red, Magenta, Yellow, and White.

If you want to make the output more noticeable, you could also consider using `Write-Warning` or `Write-Error` cmdlets, which will display the message in yellow and red respectively.

```powershell
Write-Warning "This is a warning message"
Write-Error "This is an error message"
```

Remember that using `Write-Error` will also add an error to the error stream, which might not be what you want if it's not an actual error.

If you are writing a script that will be used in a GUI or a web page, then you could use HTML tags to make the text bold. But in a console or terminal, your options for text formatting are limited.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In PowerShell, you can't directly output bold text using the "Write-Host" cmdlet. However, you can use colors to differentiate the output and make it more readable. Here is an example:

```powershell
Write-Host "This is a message" -ForegroundColor Green
```

In this example, the text "This is a message" will be printed in green color.

If you are writing scripts for a web-based environment or a tool that supports HTML, you could use HTML tags to make text bold. But this won't work in a standard PowerShell console.

If you are using PowerShell 7.1 or later, you can use ANSI escape sequences to make text bold, but this will only work in some terminals that support it.

```powershell
Write-Host "`e[1mThis is a bold message`e[0m"
```

In this example, "`e[1m" is the ANSI escape sequence for bold text, and "`e[0m" resets it. Please note that this might not work in all terminals.

Remember that "Write-Host" is generally not recommended for most scripts because it interferes with the pipeline and it's not possible to suppress or capture its output. Consider using "Write-Output" or "Write-Verbose" instead.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In PowerShell, you can't directly make the output text bold. However, you can change the color of the output text using the "Write-Host" cmdlet, which can help to distinguish different parts of your output.

Here's an example:

```powershell
Write-Host "This is a normal text"
Write-Host "This is a green text" -ForegroundColor Green
```

In this example, the first line will output normal text, and the second line will output green text.

If you want to make your output more noticeable, you can use a combination of different colors for different parts of your output.

Also, if you are writing scripts that are intended to be used by other people, it's generally recommended to use "Write-Output" or "Write-Verbose" instead of "Write-Host". The "Write-Host" cmdlet is primarily intended for interactive use, and its output can't be captured or redirected, which can be a problem if your script is being used in a pipeline or automated process.

--------
