
# Post \#49859457 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49859457/)

## How to reinstall the latest cmake version?

**Vote**: 50 (122/702) **Views**: 146134 (53/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-673

Created at 2018-04-16 14:13:44

Tags: `linux` `bash` `ubuntu` `cmake`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like to install cmake the latest version, on Linux environment. I have cmake version 3.5 installed and is not supported by some applications. I tried to upgrade it by uninstalling the current version. But when I reinstall with sudo apt-get install cmake, I get the same version 3.5 re-installed. How do I install the latest version with sudo apt-get install ....? 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Unfortunately, the latest version of CMake may not always be available in the default repositories of your Linux distribution. However, you can try adding a PPA (Personal Package Archive) to your system to get the latest version of CMake.

Here are the steps to install the latest version of CMake on Ubuntu:

1. Add the Kitware repository to your system:

```
sudo apt-key adv --fetch-keys https://apt.kitware.com/keys/kitware-archive-latest.asc
sudo apt-add-repository 'deb https://apt.kitware.com/ubuntu/ focal main'
```

Note: Replace "focal" with your Ubuntu version codename (e.g. bionic, xenial, etc.)

2. Update the package list:

```
sudo apt-get update
```

3. Install CMake:

```
sudo apt-get install cmake
```

This should install the latest version of CMake on your system. You can check the version by running:

```
cmake --version
```

I hope this helps!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Unfortunately, the version of CMake available through the default package manager on your Linux distribution may not always be the latest version. In this case, you can try installing the latest version of CMake using the following steps:

1. Download the latest version of CMake from the official website: https://cmake.org/download/
2. Extract the downloaded file to a directory of your choice. For example, you can extract it to /opt/cmake-<version>/.
3. Add the CMake binary directory to your PATH environment variable. You can do this by adding the following line to your ~/.bashrc file:

   export PATH="/opt/cmake-<version>/bin:$PATH"

   Replace <version> with the version number of the CMake you downloaded.

4. Save the file and run the following command to apply the changes:

   source ~/.bashrc

5. Verify that the latest version of CMake is installed by running the following command:

   cmake --version

   This should display the version number of the latest CMake you installed.

Note that this method installs CMake outside of the package manager, so you may need to manually update it in the future.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The version of CMake available through the package manager of your Linux distribution may not always be the latest version. In this case, you can try installing the latest version of CMake from the official CMake website.

Here are the steps to install the latest version of CMake on Linux:

1. Open a terminal window.

2. Download the latest version of CMake from the official website using the following command:

```
wget https://cmake.org/files/v3.21/cmake-3.21.3.tar.gz
```

Note: Replace the version number with the latest version available on the website.

3. Extract the downloaded file using the following command:

```
tar -xzvf cmake-3.21.3.tar.gz
```

4. Navigate to the extracted directory using the following command:

```
cd cmake-3.21.3
```

5. Run the following commands to build and install CMake:

```
./bootstrap
make
sudo make install
```

6. Verify the installation by running the following command:

```
cmake --version
```

This should display the latest version of CMake that you just installed.

Note: If you encounter any errors during the installation process, make sure to check the official CMake documentation for troubleshooting steps.

--------
