
# Post \#59760118 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59760118/)

## How to open 'This PC' using CMD or Powershell?

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 14958 (358/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-689

Created at 2020-01-15 21:55:13

Tags: `windows` `powershell` `cmd` `directory`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I need a way of opening the explorer at This PC , in the same way as opening in a windows explorer Gui, but I am incapable of this as using Explorer.exe in CMD opens quick access.

I tried opening it with a shortcut and that too failed. 

Does anyone know of a way to do this?

Cheers


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the following command in CMD to open Windows Explorer at "This PC":

```cmd
explorer.exe /e,::{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}
```

This command uses the CLSID (Class Identifier) for "This PC", which is `{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}`. The `/e` switch tells Explorer to open a specific folder or directory.

You can also create a shortcut with this command. Just right-click on the desktop, select "New" > "Shortcut", and then enter the command above.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can open Windows Explorer at "This PC" by using the following command in CMD or PowerShell:

```cmd
explorer.exe /e,::{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}
```

This command uses the CLSID (Class ID) of "This PC", which is `{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}`. The `/e` switch tells Explorer to open a specific folder or directory.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can open Windows Explorer at "This PC" by using the following command in CMD or PowerShell:

```cmd
explorer.exe /e,::{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}
```

This command uses the CLSID (Class Identifier) for "This PC", which is `{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}`. The `/e,` switch tells Explorer to open a specific folder or directory.

--------
