
# Post \#60122188 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60122188/)

## How to turn off the pager for AWS CLI return value?

**Vote**: 75 (83/702) **Views**: 23240 (272/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-652

Created at 2020-02-07 22:54:49

Tags: `bash` `amazon-web-services` `amazon-sqs` `aws-cli`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am attempting to utilize the AWS CLI along with a `for` loop in bash to iteratively purge multiple SQS message queues.  The bash script works almost as intended, the problem I am having is with the return value each time the AWS CLI sends a request.  When the request is successful, it returns an empty value and opens up an interactive pager in the command line.  I then have to manually type `q` to exit the interactive screen and allow the `for` loop to continue to the next iteration.  This becomes very tedious and time consuming when attempting to purge a large number of queues.
Is there a way to configure AWS CLI to disable this interactive pager from popping up for every return value?  Or a way to pipe the return values into a separate file instead of being displayed?
I have played around with configuring different return value types (text, yaml, JSON) but haven't had any luck.  Also the `--no-pagination` parameter doesn't change the behavior.
Here's an example of the bash script I'm trying to run:
```
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```



----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 95

Created at 2020-02-24 11:11:24

------------

Just running into this issue myself, I was able to disable the behaviour by invoking the aws cli as `AWS_PAGER="" aws ...`.

Alternatively you could simply `export AWS_PAGER=""` at the top of your (bash) script.

Source: [https://github.com/aws/aws-cli/pull/4702#issue-344978525](https://github.com/aws/aws-cli/pull/4702#issue-344978525)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 47

Created at 2021-02-23 12:46:22

------------

You can also use `--no-cli-pager` in AWS CLI version 2.
See the "Client-side pager" section here [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-usage-pagination.html](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-usage-pagination.html)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 41

Created at 2020-06-29 03:22:58

------------

You can disable pager either by exporting `AWS_PAGER=""` or by modifying you AWS cli config file.
```
export AWS_PAGER="" 

### or update your ~/.aws/config with 

[default]
cli_pager=
```

Alternatively, you can enable the default pager to output of `less` program as
```
export AWS_PAGER="less"
```

or corresponding config change.
Ref: [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-usage-pagination.html#cli-usage-pagination-clientside](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-usage-pagination.html#cli-usage-pagination-clientside)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 7

Created at 2020-02-21 21:13:22

------------

You can set the environment variable `PAGER` to `"cat"` to force awscli to not start up `less`:

`PAGER=cat aws sqs list-queues`

I set up as a shell alias to make my life easier:

```
# ~/.zshrc
alias aws="PAGER=cat aws"
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#4

 Vote: 5

Created at 2020-08-25 20:34:30

------------

I am using the aws cli v2 via docker and passing the `--env AWS_PAGER=""` on the docker run command fixed this issue for me on windows 10 using git bash.
I set it up as an alias as well so things work with jq.
How to set your docker env values:
- [https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#set-environment-variables--e---env---env-file](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#set-environment-variables--e---env---env-file)
Example alias:
`docker run --rm -it -v c:/users/me/.aws:/root/.aws --env AWS_PAGER="" amazon/aws-cli`


------------
    
    
## Answer \#5

 Vote: 3

Created at 2021-12-09 16:25:02

------------

Inside your ~/.aws/config file, add:
`cli_pager=`


------------
    
    