
# Post \#65994073 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65994073/)

## How to install cask for homebrew on mac

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 33116 (217/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-682

Created at 2021-02-01 14:03:04

Tags: `macos` `terminal` `homebrew` `glew` `homebrew-cask`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have set up git and homebrew, ran `brew reset-update`, `brew update` and `brew doctor` none of these give me errors but when I try to install glew using: `brew install glew` it gives me many errors:
```
fatal: the remote end hung up unexpectedly30.11 MiB | 4.92 MiB/s
fatal: early EOF
fatal: index-pack failed
Error: Failure while executing; `git clone https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-cask     /usr/local/Homebrew/Library/Taps/homebrew/homebrew-cask` exited with 128.
```

I figured it was because cask wasn't installed(even though from what I've read it's supposed to install with homebrew) so tried to install cask separately too but it also gives me the same error as the bottom one, I've also tried reinstalling git and homebrew, updating everything as well as restarting my mac. Any help would be appreciated.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're seeing is related to Git, not Homebrew or GLEW. It seems that Git is having trouble cloning the repository. This can be due to a variety of reasons such as network issues, GitHub server problems, or local machine problems.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check your internet connection**: Make sure you have a stable internet connection. Try to clone another repository to see if the problem persists.

2. **Increase Git's HTTP buffer size**: Sometimes, this error can occur if the repository is large and Git's HTTP buffer isn't large enough to handle it. You can increase the buffer size with the following command:

    ```
    git config --global http.postBuffer 524288000
    ```

3. **Change the cloning method**: If increasing the buffer size doesn't work, you can try to change the cloning method from HTTPS to SSH or vice versa. If you're using HTTPS, you can switch to SSH by using the following command:

    ```
    git clone git@github.com:Homebrew/homebrew-cask.git
    ```

    If you're using SSH, you can switch to HTTPS by using the following command:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-cask.git
    ```

4. **Check for any firewall or VPN that might be interfering**: If you're behind a firewall or using a VPN, it might be interfering with Git. Try disabling them temporarily to see if that solves the problem.

5. **Try to manually download and install GLEW**: If none of the above solutions work, you can try to manually download and install GLEW. You can download it from the official website, extract the files, and follow the installation instructions provided.

Remember to replace the URLs in the clone commands with the URL of the repository you're trying to clone.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is related to Git and not specifically to Homebrew or GLEW. It seems like the Git clone operation is failing due to some network issues. Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check your internet connection**: Make sure your internet connection is stable and try again.

2. **Increase Git's HTTP buffer**: Git has a setting that allows you to increase the HTTP buffer which can help with this kind of issue. You can increase it by running the following command in your terminal:

   ```
   git config --global http.postBuffer 524288000
   ```

   This command sets the size of the buffer used by Git when sending data over HTTP to 500 MB, which should be more than enough for most repositories.

3. **Change the Git clone URL**: Sometimes, changing the URL from `https` to `git` can help. You can do this by editing the formula directly. Use `brew edit glew` to open the formula in a text editor, then change the `url` line from `https://...` to `git://...`. Save the file and try to install again.

4. **Try to clone the repository manually**: You can try to clone the repository manually to see if the problem persists. Run the following command:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-cask
   ```

   If this command fails too, then the problem is likely with your Git setup or network connection.

5. **Check if you are behind a firewall or VPN**: If you are behind a firewall or using a VPN, it might be blocking your connection. Try disabling it temporarily and see if the problem persists.

Remember to run `brew update` and `brew doctor` after each step to make sure everything is up to date and working correctly.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is related to Git, not Homebrew or GLEW. It seems like Git is having trouble cloning the repository from GitHub.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check your internet connection**: Make sure you have a stable internet connection. If your internet connection is unstable, it might cause the remote server to hang up.

2. **Increase Git's HTTP buffer**: Git has an internal buffer for HTTP requests, and if the repository you're trying to clone is too large, it might cause issues. You can increase the buffer size with the following command:

    ```
    git config --global http.postBuffer 524288000
    ```

    This will increase the buffer size to 500 MB.

3. **Change the Git protocol**: If you're cloning the repository via HTTPS, you can try switching to SSH, or vice versa. You can change the protocol in the repository URL. For example, if the current URL is `https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-cask`, you can change it to `git@github.com:Homebrew/homebrew-cask.git` to use SSH.

4. **Check if GitHub is down**: It's also possible that GitHub is having issues. You can check the status of GitHub at https://www.githubstatus.com/.

5. **Try to clone the repository manually**: You can try to clone the repository manually to see if you get the same error. Use the following command:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-cask
    ```

    If you can clone the repository manually, then the issue might be with Homebrew. If you get the same error, then the issue is likely with Git or your internet connection.

6. **Reinstall Git**: If none of the above solutions work, you can try reinstalling Git. Uninstall it first with the following command:

    ```
    brew uninstall git
    ```

    Then reinstall it with:

    ```
    brew install git
    ```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------
