
# Post \#60974818 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60974818/)

## How to add multiple PATHs to the System Variable in Environment Variables in Windows 10?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 21026 (295/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-685

Created at 2020-04-01 15:41:27

Tags: `powershell` `windows-10` `environment-variables` `system-paths`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I mistakenly deleted the entire PATH variable under System Variables. So I tried to add a variable named PATH explicitly, to the System Variable. But now whenever I try to add multiple PATHs, each PATH overwrites the previous one.

[Screenshot 1](https://i.stack.imgur.com/4V1aj.jpg)

As you can see, instead of opening the list of paths, it just gives the option of one path. So I tried to append a PATH variable using command line.

`setx path "D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin" /m`

[Screenshot 2](https://i.stack.imgur.com/yGnnk.jpg)

It still overwrites the previous path. As shown, the Java path(from [Screenshot 1](https://i.stack.imgur.com/4V1aj.jpg)) got overwritten by the MongoDB path.

How do I resolve this issue ? How do I add multiple paths to the PATH variable ?

P.S - I use Windows 10 (64 bit).


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 3

Created at 2020-04-03 07:24:24

------------

I have found the solution to this problem and posting this as a reference for anyone in future who deletes their PATH variable entirely.


1. Open run.(Press Window Key + R)
2. Type regedit.
3. Navigate through HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE -> SYSTEM -> ControlSet001 -> Control Session Manager -> Environment
4. There will be a PATH variable. If not, create a variable and name it Path.
5. Enter all your paths each seperated by a semi-colon. For example - D:\Softwares\Java\bin;D:\Softwares\MingW\bin;D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin;




------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 5

Created at 2020-11-05 10:07:45

------------

You can add each of the PATH values you require and separate them with semi-colons


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 1

Created at 2020-04-01 15:48:39

------------

Try like this:

```
setx path "%path%;D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin"
```


This will append the path to original path variable.
Here your mistake was you weren't appending the new path to the PATH variable but just overwriting it.


------------
    
    