
# Post \#72801984 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72801984/)

## Tomcat 9 running on docker - Cannot find /usr/local/tomcat/bin/setclasspath.sh

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 4282 (539/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-667

Created at 2022-06-29 13:09:43

Tags: `docker` `shell` `tomcat` `sh` `catalina`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm running a tomcat (tomcat:9-jre11) on docker, when launching it, it logs the following, then crashes :
```
Cannot find /usr/local/tomcat/bin/setclasspath.sh
This file is needed to run this program
```

My first issue was actually getting inside the container because I can't use docker exec on a crashed container, but I managed it by setting an entry point as /bin/bash in Rancher.
Now setclasspath.sh is very much in the /usr/local/tomcat/bin/ inside the container. It previously had all read and execution rights, I've set it to 777 just to be sure, still have the same issue. Same goes with changing the owner (tomcat seems to be using root, even if I launch the catalina.sh manually on another user, having changed the file owner). I used the heavy handed approch and set the whole damn folder as 777, and still the same :
```
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root   4096 Jun 29 14:53 .
drwxr-xr-x 1 root root   4096 Jun 29 14:31 ..
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root  34699 Jun  2 21:08 bootstrap.jar
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root  25523 Jun 29 14:00 catalina.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1664 Jun  2 21:08 catalina-tasks.xml
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   2007 Jun 28 03:01 ciphers.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root  25410 Jun  2 21:08 commons-daemon.jar
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root 211777 Jun  2 21:08 commons-daemon-native.tar.gz
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1932 Jun 28 03:01 configtest.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   9110 Jun 28 03:01 daemon.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1975 Jun 28 03:01 digest.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   3392 Jun 28 03:01 makebase.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   3718 Jun 28 03:01 setclasspath.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1912 Jun 28 03:01 shutdown.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1914 Jun 28 03:01 startup.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root  46898 Jun  2 21:08 tomcat-juli.jar
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   5550 Jun 28 03:01 tool-wrapper.sh
-rwxrwxrwx 1 root root   1918 Jun 28 03:01 version.sh
```

I've looked at the catalina.sh script, the part which cause the issue is the following :
```
if [ -r "$CATALINA_HOME"/bin/setclasspath.sh ]; then
    . "$CATALINA_HOME"/bin/setclasspath.sh
  else
    echo "Cannot find $CATALINA_HOME/bin/setclasspath.sh"
    echo "This file is needed to run this program"
  fi
```

The  inside the condition is borked. I've read it looked if the file exists and is readable, it fill all conditions. I've added elif with  and  condition and the do return true, but the rights seems to be the issue despite them being set to 777 or not. I've add a whoami inside the script as well, and it's the root user, so not an issue of ownership.
The startup.sh script has a similar issue, with a -x condition, where it cannot find the catalina.sh ...


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're encountering seems to be related to the `CATALINA_HOME` environment variable. The script is looking for `setclasspath.sh` in the directory specified by `CATALINA_HOME`, but it seems like it's not finding it there.

Here are a few things you can check:

1. **Check the value of `CATALINA_HOME`**: You can do this by adding `echo $CATALINA_HOME` in your script before the if condition. This will print the value of `CATALINA_HOME` when the script runs. Make sure that this path is correct and points to the directory where `setclasspath.sh` is located.

2. **Set `CATALINA_HOME` manually**: If `CATALINA_HOME` is not set correctly, you can set it manually in your script before the if condition. For example, you can add `CATALINA_HOME=/usr/local/tomcat` before the if condition. This will set `CATALINA_HOME` to `/usr/local/tomcat` for the duration of the script.

3. **Check the file path**: Make sure that the file path in the if condition is correct. The path should be `$CATALINA_HOME/bin/setclasspath.sh`. If `CATALINA_HOME` is `/usr/local/tomcat`, then the full path should be `/usr/local/tomcat/bin/setclasspath.sh`.

4. **Check the file permissions**: Make sure that `setclasspath.sh` has the correct permissions. The script needs to be able to read the file, so it should have read permissions. You can check the file permissions with `ls -l $CATALINA_HOME/bin/setclasspath.sh`. You can change the file permissions with `chmod +r $CATALINA_HOME/bin/setclasspath.sh`.

If none of these solutions work, there might be an issue with the Docker image you're using. You might want to try using a different image or building your own image.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're experiencing seems to be related to the environment variable `$CATALINA_HOME`. This variable should be set to the path where Tomcat is installed. If this variable is not set correctly, the script will not be able to find the `setclasspath.sh` file, even if it exists and has the correct permissions.

Here are a few steps you can take to troubleshoot this issue:

1. **Check the value of `$CATALINA_HOME`**: You can do this by adding `echo $CATALINA_HOME` in your `catalina.sh` script. The output should be `/usr/local/tomcat`.

2. **Set `$CATALINA_HOME` manually**: If `$CATALINA_HOME` is not set correctly, you can set it manually in your `catalina.sh` script by adding the line `CATALINA_HOME=/usr/local/tomcat` at the beginning of the script.

3. **Check the value of `$CATALINA_HOME` in the Dockerfile**: If you're using a Dockerfile to build your image, make sure that `$CATALINA_HOME` is set correctly. You can do this by adding the line `ENV CATALINA_HOME /usr/local/tomcat` in your Dockerfile.

4. **Check the value of `$CATALINA_HOME` in the container**: If you're able to get into the container, you can check the value of `$CATALINA_HOME` by running `echo $CATALINA_HOME` in the shell.

5. **Check the Docker image**: It's possible that the Docker image you're using has some issues. You can try using a different image or version to see if the problem persists.

6. **Check the Docker run command**: Make sure that you're not overriding the `$CATALINA_HOME` environment variable in your Docker run command.

If none of these steps solve the issue, it's possible that there's a problem with the Tomcat installation itself. In this case, you might want to consider reinstalling Tomcat or using a different method to deploy your application.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue seems to be related to the environment variable `$CATALINA_HOME`. It might not be set correctly or not set at all. This variable should point to the directory where Tomcat is installed.

Here are some steps to debug this issue:

1. **Check if the `$CATALINA_HOME` variable is set**: You can do this by adding `echo $CATALINA_HOME` in the `catalina.sh` script and see what it prints. If it's empty or pointing to the wrong directory, that's likely the cause of the problem.

2. **Set the `$CATALINA_HOME` variable**: If the variable is not set, you can set it in the Dockerfile using the `ENV` instruction. Add this line to your Dockerfile:

    ```
    ENV CATALINA_HOME /usr/local/tomcat
    ```

    Then rebuild your Docker image and try running the container again.

3. **Check if the `$CATALINA_HOME` variable is exported**: If the variable is set but not exported, it won't be available to scripts that are run from the shell. You can export the variable by adding this line to your Dockerfile:

    ```
    RUN echo 'export CATALINA_HOME=/usr/local/tomcat' >> ~/.bashrc
    ```

    Then rebuild your Docker image and try running the container again.

4. **Check if the `$CATALINA_HOME` variable is set in the correct shell**: If you're setting the variable in a shell that's different from the one running the script, it won't be available. Make sure you're setting the variable in the correct shell. For example, if you're running the script with bash, make sure you're setting the variable in `~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile`.

If none of these steps solve the problem, there might be an issue with the Docker image you're using. You might want to try using a different image or building your own from scratch.

--------
