
# Post \#60974818 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60974818/)

## How to add multiple PATHs to the System Variable in Environment Variables in Windows 10?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 21026 (295/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-685

Created at 2020-04-01 15:41:27

Tags: `powershell` `windows-10` `environment-variables` `system-paths`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I mistakenly deleted the entire PATH variable under System Variables. So I tried to add a variable named PATH explicitly, to the System Variable. But now whenever I try to add multiple PATHs, each PATH overwrites the previous one.

[Screenshot 1](https://i.stack.imgur.com/4V1aj.jpg)

As you can see, instead of opening the list of paths, it just gives the option of one path. So I tried to append a PATH variable using command line.

`setx path "D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin" /m`

[Screenshot 2](https://i.stack.imgur.com/yGnnk.jpg)

It still overwrites the previous path. As shown, the Java path(from [Screenshot 1](https://i.stack.imgur.com/4V1aj.jpg)) got overwritten by the MongoDB path.

How do I resolve this issue ? How do I add multiple paths to the PATH variable ?

P.S - I use Windows 10 (64 bit).


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To add multiple paths to the PATH variable, you need to separate each path with a semicolon (;). Here's how you can do it:

1. Open the Environment Variables window by searching for "Environment Variables" in the Start menu and clicking on "Edit the system environment variables".

2. Click on the "Environment Variables" button.

3. Under "System Variables", select the "PATH" variable and click on "Edit".

4. In the "Edit environment variable" window, click on "New" and enter the first path you want to add.

5. Click on "New" again and enter the second path, and so on.

6. Make sure to separate each path with a semicolon (;).

7. Click on "OK" to close all the windows.

Alternatively, you can use the command line to add multiple paths to the PATH variable. Here's how:

1. Open the command prompt as an administrator.

2. Type the following command to add the first path:

   `setx path "%PATH%;D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin" /m`

   This will append the MongoDB path to the existing PATH variable.

3. Type the following command to add the second path:

   `setx path "%PATH%;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_221\bin" /m`

   This will append the Java path to the existing PATH variable.

4. Make sure to separate each path with a semicolon (;).

5. Close the command prompt.

After adding the paths, you may need to restart any open command prompt or terminal windows for the changes to take effect.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To add multiple paths to the PATH variable, you need to separate each path with a semicolon (;). Here's how you can do it:

1. Open the Environment Variables window by pressing the Windows key + Pause/Break key. Alternatively, you can right-click on This PC/My Computer and select Properties. Then click on Advanced system settings and click on the Environment Variables button.

2. Under System Variables, select the PATH variable and click on Edit.

3. In the Edit Environment Variable window, add a semicolon (;) at the end of the existing value and then add the path you want to add. For example, if the existing value is "C:\Windows\System32", you can add a new path "D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin" by typing ";D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin" at the end of the existing value.

4. Click on OK to save the changes.

5. Repeat step 3 for each path you want to add, separating each path with a semicolon (;).

6. Click on OK to close the Environment Variables window.

Alternatively, you can use the command line to add multiple paths to the PATH variable. Here's how you can do it:

1. Open the Command Prompt as an administrator.

2. Type the following command to add a new path to the PATH variable:

   `setx path "%path%;D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin" /m`

   This command appends the new path to the existing value of the PATH variable.

3. Repeat step 2 for each path you want to add, separating each path with a semicolon (;).

4. Close the Command Prompt.

After adding the paths to the PATH variable, you may need to restart any open command prompt windows or applications for the changes to take effect.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To add multiple paths to the PATH variable, you need to separate each path with a semicolon (;). Here's how you can do it:

1. Open the Environment Variables window by pressing the Windows key + Pause/Break key.

2. Click on the "Environment Variables" button at the bottom of the window.

3. Under "System Variables", find the "PATH" variable and click on "Edit".

4. In the "Edit environment variable" window, click on "New" and enter the first path you want to add.

5. Click on "New" again and enter the second path, separated by a semicolon from the first path.

6. Repeat step 5 for each additional path you want to add.

7. Click "OK" to close all the windows.

Alternatively, you can use the command line to add multiple paths to the PATH variable. Here's an example:

`setx PATH "%PATH%;D:\Softwares\MongoDB\bin" /m`

This command will append the MongoDB path to the existing PATH variable. Note that you need to include the existing PATH variable (%PATH%) in the command, followed by a semicolon (;) and the new path you want to add.

--------
