
# Post \#57262349 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57262349/)

## Restart terminal without closing on MacOS

**Vote**: 56 (116/702) **Views**: 81603 (104/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-698

Created at 2019-07-29 23:03:31

Tags: `bash` `macos` `terminal`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How to restart my current MacOS terminal session without closing the window?
In Linux I use `exec bash` but it does not work in this environment. I made a few changes to the `.bash_profile` (prompt, alias etc) I would like to see without closing it and opening again.


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 103

Created at 2019-07-30 06:48:30

------------

Just type in the command:
```
exec bash -l
```

I guess that should do it.
For `zsh`,
```
exec zsh -l
```

This is needed because every shell on `macOS` by default is a login shell.
Justing writing `exec bash` would replace the current shell with a non-login shell which is not the same effect as closing and re-opening the terminal.
`exec` would make new `bash -l` process replace the current shell. If `exec` is not used, `bash -l` would spawn a new shell over the current shell incrementing the `$SHLVL`.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 9

Created at 2021-09-13 20:12:40

------------

For me none of the other solutions work for ZSH.
Simply `source ~/.zshrc` did the job actually.
Note: running `exec zsh -l` outputs `/Users/my_username/.zprofile:3: command not found: yarn` (where `my_username` is my username). But running only the command mentioned above does the job.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 1

Created at 2022-10-25 20:25:56

------------

If your session is hanging (maybe your SSH connection was interrupted), you won't be able to restart by entering a command.
On iTerm, you can navigate to "Session" > "Restart Session" in the menu bar.
You can also add a key binding for this via "iTerm" > "Preferences" > "Keys" > "Key Bindings" > "+".
- - 
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/JIei5.png)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 0

Created at 2020-10-17 20:03:27

------------

The actual answer, assuming you interpret the question as having the same effect at the state of the terminal session as closing and reopening Terminal would, appears to be to run the executable of the used shell to start a new session:
[https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/217907/137983](https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/217907/137983)
```
zsh
```

If you're not on Catalina where ZSH is the default shell, it's going to be:
```
bash
```

After this, all state of the previous session (like session environment variables) will be reset. Also ZSH profile should be re-sourced I think.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#4

 Vote: 0

Created at 2021-02-09 17:53:35

------------

If you've made any changes to your `.bashrc` and `.bash_profile`, then without closing the terminal you can specify `alias` in your `.bashrc` and `.bash_profile` as shown below to restart the terminal:
`alias rest='exec bash -l;source ~/.bashrc;source ~/.bash_profile'`
This command sources the .bashrc and .bash_profile again, in the sense restarts the terminal and creates a new terminal session. It works for me. Give this a try!
So, if you wanna restart the terminal, just enter `rest` (short for restart) in your terminal.


------------
    
    