
# Post \#62029637 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62029637/)

## Changing username, hostname, and path color in iterm2

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 7797 (470/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-683

Created at 2020-05-26 19:13:29

Tags: `macos` `terminal` `zsh` `iterm2`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How can I change the username, hostname, and path color in iTerm2? I'm using the built-in Solarized colorscheme.

In Ubuntu, the same built-in colorscheme is highlighted like:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/5cElM.png)

In iTerm2:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/z3JDB.png)

Current iTerm2 settings:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/9OtXN.png)

and
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/DJdF0.png)

I've been playing around the settings but can't get it to work. I've also gone through numerous links, but those also settings don't work.

I'm on macOS 10.15.4


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The colors in your terminal are not determined by iTerm2 itself, but by the shell that you are using. In your case, it looks like you are using bash. The prompt is controlled by the PS1 environment variable. You can change the color of the prompt by modifying this variable.

Here's a basic example of how you can change the color of your username, hostname, and path:

1. Open your bash profile in a text editor. This is typically located at `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.bashrc`. You can open this in a text editor from the terminal like this:

   ```bash
   nano ~/.bash_profile
   ```

   or

   ```bash
   nano ~/.bashrc
   ```

2. Add the following lines to the file:

   ```bash
   export PS1='\[\033[01;32m\]\u@\h\[\033[00m\]:\[\033[01;34m\]\w\[\033[00m\]\$ '
   ```

   This will set your username and hostname to green (`\[\033[01;32m\]`), and your path to blue (`\[\033[01;34m\]`). The `\[\033[00m\]` resets the color back to the default.

3. Save the file and exit the text editor. If you're using nano, you can do this by pressing `Ctrl+X`, then `Y` to confirm that you want to save the changes, and then `Enter` to confirm the file name.

4. Restart your terminal or source your bash profile for the changes to take effect:

   ```bash
   source ~/.bash_profile
   ```

   or

   ```bash
   source ~/.bashrc
   ```

You can customize the colors by changing the color codes. The format is `\[\033[style;fg;bgm\]`, where `style` is 0 for normal, 1 for bold, `fg` is the foreground color, and `bg` is the background color. The color codes are 30 for black, 31 for red, 32 for green, 33 for yellow, 34 for blue, 35 for magenta, 36 for cyan, and 37 for white.

For example, if you wanted your username and hostname to be bold and red, and your path to be bold and cyan, you could use:

```bash
export PS1='\[\033[01;31m\]\u@\h\[\033[00m\]:\[\033[01;36m\]\w\[\033[00m\]\$ '
```

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The colors you see in your terminal are not determined by iTerm2 but by your shell and the programs you run in it. iTerm2 just displays the colors it's told to. 

If you're using bash, you can change the colors of your prompt by modifying the PS1 environment variable in your .bashrc or .bash_profile file. 

Here's an example of how you can change the colors:

```bash
export PS1='\[\033[01;32m\]\u@\h\[\033[00m\]:\[\033[01;34m\]\w\[\033[00m\]\$ '
```

In this example:

- `\[\033[01;32m\]` changes the color to green for the username and hostname
- `\u@\h` is the username and hostname
- `\[\033[00m\]` resets the color
- `\[\033[01;34m\]` changes the color to blue for the path
- `\w` is the path
- `\[\033[00m\]` resets the color again

You can change the color codes to whatever you prefer. Here are some common ones:

- Black: 0;30
- Red: 0;31
- Green: 0;32
- Brown/Orange: 0;33
- Blue: 0;34
- Purple: 0;35
- Cyan: 0;36
- Light Gray: 0;37
- Dark Gray: 1;30
- Light Red: 1;31
- Light Green: 1;32
- Yellow: 1;33
- Light Blue: 1;34
- Light Purple: 1;35
- Light Cyan: 1;36
- White: 1;37

After you've made the changes, save the file and then run `source ~/.bashrc` or `source ~/.bash_profile` to apply the changes. If you open a new terminal window or tab, the changes should also apply.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The colors in your terminal are not determined by iTerm2, but by the shell that you are using. In your case, it looks like you are using bash. The prompt (username, hostname, path) colors are set in a file called `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` in your home directory.

To change the colors, you need to set the `PS1` variable in your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile`. Here's an example of how you can change it:

1. Open your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` file in a text editor. If you're not sure which one to use, try `.bash_profile` first. If it doesn't exist or doesn't work, try `.bashrc`.

```bash
nano ~/.bash_profile
```

2. Add the following lines to the file:

```bash
export CLICOLOR=1
export LSCOLORS=ExFxBxDxCxegedabagacad
export PS1='\[\033[01;32m\]\u@\h\[\033[00m\]:\[\033[01;34m\]\w\[\033[00m\]\$ '
```

This will set your username and hostname to green (`\[\033[01;32m\]`), and your path to blue (`\[\033[01;34m\]`). The `\[\033[00m\]` resets the color.

3. Save the file and exit the text editor. If you're using nano, you can do this by pressing `Ctrl+X`, then `Y`, then `Enter`.

4. Reload your `.bash_profile` or `.bashrc` file to apply the changes:

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
```

Now your prompt should have the colors you set. You can customize the colors by changing the color codes in the `PS1` variable. Here are some common ones:

- Black: `\[\033[0;30m\]`
- Red: `\[\033[0;31m\]`
- Green: `\[\033[0;32m\]`
- Brown/Orange: `\[\033[0;33m\]`
- Blue: `\[\033[0;34m\]`
- Purple: `\[\033[0;35m\]`
- Cyan: `\[\033[0;36m\]`
- Light Gray: `\[\033[0;37m\]`

For the bold or lighter versions, replace the `0` with `1`, like `\[\033[1;31m\]` for light red.

--------
