
# Post \#53839253 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53839253/)

## How can I convert an array into a comma separated string?

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 47045 (171/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-665

Created at 2018-12-18 18:42:16

Tags: `arrays` `bash` `shell`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an array and I am printing it like this:

```
echo "${data[*]}"
```




```
/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_1.xml 
/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_2.xml
```


I want to store the above output as a comma separated value. How can I achieve this in Bash?

The data array is dynamic, it may have any number of values.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can achieve this by using the `IFS` (Internal Field Separator) variable in Bash. The `IFS` variable is used in Bash to determine how word splitting will occur after expansions. By default, it's set to whitespace (space, tab, and newline), but you can change it to any character you want.

Here is how you can do it:

```bash
IFS=","
echo "${data[*]}"
```

This will print all elements in the array separated by a comma. Please note that this change to `IFS` will only be effective for this single command.

If you want to store the output in a variable, you can do it like this:

```bash
IFS=","
output="${data[*]}"
echo $output
```

This will store the comma-separated values in the `output` variable.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can achieve this by using the `IFS` (Internal Field Separator) variable in Bash. The `IFS` variable is used in Bash to determine how word splitting will occur after expansions are performed. Here's how you can do it:

```bash
IFS=","
echo "${data[*]}"
```

This will print out the array elements separated by commas. However, this will only change the `IFS` for this specific echo command.

If you want to change `IFS` back to its default value (which is a space), you can do it like this:

```bash
oldIFS=$IFS
IFS=","
echo "${data[*]}"
IFS=$oldIFS
```

This will store the old `IFS` value, change it to a comma, print the array, and then change `IFS` back to its original value. This is useful if you have more code that relies on the default `IFS` value after this part of your script.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `IFS` (Internal Field Separator) variable in Bash to change the delimiter used when expanding array elements. Here's how you can do it:

```bash
IFS=","
echo "${data[*]}"
```

This will print the array elements separated by commas. 

However, this will only change the `IFS` for this particular echo command. If you want to revert `IFS` back to its original value (which is usually a space), you can store the original `IFS` in a variable, change it, and then restore it, like this:

```bash
oldIFS=$IFS
IFS=","
echo "${data[*]}"
IFS=$oldIFS
```

This way, the `IFS` will only be a comma for the duration of the echo command, and then it will be restored to its original value.

--------
