
# Post \#71038117 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71038117/)

## Why doesn't nested parameter expansion work correctly in GitLab CI/CD?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 828 (674/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-655

Created at 2022-02-08 17:22:34

Tags: `bash` `gitlab` `gitlab-ci` `gitlab-ci.yml`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Using a `bash` runner, is there any reason why the following variable expansion shouldn't work?
```
variables:
  GIT_BRANCH: "${CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME:-${CI_COMMIT_BRANCH:-$CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH}}"

job1:
  script:
    - echo $GIT_BRANCH
```

The job outputs `}`.
I'm using GitLab Enterprise Edition 14.1.8-ee.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The variable expansion in the `GIT_BRANCH` variable looks correct. However, the issue might be with the shell used by the `bash` runner. 

Try modifying the `script` section to explicitly use the `bash` shell and see if that resolves the issue:
```
job1:
  script:
    - /bin/bash -c 'echo $GIT_BRANCH'
```

If that doesn't work, try using double quotes instead of single quotes:
```
job1:
  script:
    - /bin/bash -c "echo $GIT_BRANCH"
```

If neither of these solutions work, it's possible that there is an issue with the GitLab runner or environment variables. In that case, you may need to reach out to GitLab support for further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The variable expansion in the `GIT_BRANCH` definition looks correct. However, the issue might be with the `bash` runner interpreting the `${}` syntax differently than expected.

Try changing the variable expansion syntax to use `$()` instead of `${}`:
```
variables:
  GIT_BRANCH: "$(echo ${CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME:-${CI_COMMIT_BRANCH:-$CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH}})"

job1:
  script:
    - echo $GIT_BRANCH
```

This should ensure that the variable expansion is evaluated correctly by the `bash` runner.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The variable expansion in the `GIT_BRANCH` definition looks correct, so the issue might be with the `echo` command. 

Try enclosing the variable in double quotes to ensure that any special characters are properly interpreted:
```
job1:
  script:
    - echo "$GIT_BRANCH"
```

If that doesn't work, you can try using `set -x` to enable debugging and see what's happening with the variable expansion:
```
job1:
  script:
    - set -x
    - echo $GIT_BRANCH
```

This will print the expanded value of `$GIT_BRANCH` to the console, along with any other commands that are executed. You can use this output to help diagnose the issue.

--------
