
# Post \#56784894 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56784894/)

## macOS Catalina 10.15(beta) - Why is ~/.bash_profile not sourced by my shell?

**Vote**: 148 (35/702) **Views**: 101827 (83/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-690

Created at 2019-06-27 06:08:50

Tags: `bash` `shell` `environment-variables` `zsh` `macos-catalina`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to set the environment variable I added below the line to `~/.bash_profile` and `~/.profile` but it didn't work.

```
export JBOSS_HOME=/Users/{USERNAME}/Desktop/jboss7
```


Afterward, exit the terminal and open it again when executing `echo $JBOSS_HOME` I get nothing.

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/i8pyb.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue might be due to the fact that `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.profile` is not being sourced when you open a new terminal. 

Here are the steps to set the environment variable:

1. Open the terminal.

2. Open `~/.bash_profile` with a text editor. You can use nano for this:

   ```
   nano ~/.bash_profile
   ```

3. Add the following line at the end of the file:

   ```
   export JBOSS_HOME=/Users/{USERNAME}/Desktop/jboss7
   ```

   Replace `{USERNAME}` with your actual username.

4. Save the changes and exit the text editor. If you're using nano, you can do this by pressing `Ctrl + X`, then `Y` to confirm the save, and finally `Enter` to confirm the file name.

5. Now, you need to source `~/.bash_profile` so that the changes take effect in the current terminal:

   ```
   source ~/.bash_profile
   ```

6. You can now check if the environment variable is set correctly:

   ```
   echo $JBOSS_HOME
   ```

   This should output `/Users/{USERNAME}/Desktop/jboss7`.

If you still face the issue, you can add the `export` line to `~/.bashrc` instead of `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.profile`. The `~/.bashrc` file is sourced every time you open a new terminal, so this should definitely work.

If you're using a shell other than bash, like zsh for example (which is the default in macOS Catalina and later), you should add the `export` line to `~/.zshrc` instead.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Setting environment variables in `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.profile` should work, but you need to make sure that these files are actually being sourced when you start a new terminal session. 

Here are a few things you can check:

1. Make sure you replace `{USERNAME}` with your actual username in the path.

2. Make sure you have the correct permissions to read the file. You can check this with `ls -l ~/.bash_profile` and `ls -l ~/.profile`. If you don't have read permissions, you can add them with `chmod +r ~/.bash_profile` and `chmod +r ~/.profile`.

3. Try sourcing the file manually with `source ~/.bash_profile` or `. ~/.bash_profile` (the same for `~/.profile`). If this works, it means the file is not being sourced automatically when you start a new terminal session.

4. Check if your terminal is using bash. You can do this with `echo $SHELL`. If it's not using bash, you might need to add the export to a different file. For example, if you're using zsh, you would add it to `~/.zshrc`.

5. If you're using a system with Systemd, you might need to use the `systemctl --user import-environment` command to import the environment variables.

6. If none of the above work, you can try adding the export to `~/.bashrc` instead. This file is sourced for interactive non-login shells, while `~/.bash_profile` is sourced for login shells.

Remember to open a new terminal session (or source the file manually) after making any changes, as changes to these files won't affect existing sessions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Setting environment variables in `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.profile` should work, but you need to make sure that these files are actually being sourced when you start a new terminal session. 

Here are the steps to set the environment variable:

1. Open `~/.bash_profile` and `~/.profile` with a text editor. If they don't exist, you can create them.

2. Add the following line to both files:

    ```
    export JBOSS_HOME=/Users/{USERNAME}/Desktop/jboss7
    ```

    Replace `{USERNAME}` with your actual username.

3. Save and close the files.

4. Now, you need to source these files to apply the changes. You can do this by restarting your terminal or using the `source` command:

    ```
    source ~/.bash_profile
    source ~/.profile
    ```

5. Now, if you echo `$JBOSS_HOME`, you should see the path you set:

    ```
    echo $JBOSS_HOME
    ```

If this still doesn't work, it's possible that your terminal is not using bash. You can check your default shell with the following command:

```
echo $SHELL
```

If it's not bash (for example, it might be zsh), you'll need to add the `export` line to the appropriate configuration file for that shell (for example, `~/.zshrc` for zsh).

--------
