
# Post \#67824107 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67824107/)

## How to remove question mark and the rest from file names?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 1987 (607/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-696

Created at 2021-06-03 15:13:32

Tags: `bash` `sed` `find`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have grabbed a whole website template using . It created many asset files in different subdirectories where filenames contain question marks, `./fonts/fontawesome-webfont.woff?v=4.5.0` for example. I need to truncate `?` and the rest from these filenames. I tried this command:
```
find . -type f -name '*\?*' -exec mv "{}" "$(echo {} | sed 's/\?.*//g')" \;
```

But it does not work; nothing is replaced/removed, it shows this error:
```
mv: './fonts/fontawesome-webfont.woff?v=4.5.0' and './fonts/fontawesome-webfont.woff?v=4.5.0' are the same file
```

I have these type of filenames in different directories, so I tried `find` command. What am I missing here ?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue here is that the command substitution `$(echo {} | sed 's/\?.*//g')` is evaluated before the `find` command is run, so it's not getting the expected filenames. You can solve this by using a shell script or a shell function to do the renaming.

Here's an example using a bash shell script:

```bash
find . -type f -name '*\?*' | while read -r file; do
  mv "$file" "$(echo "$file" | sed 's/\?.*//g')"
done
```

This script reads each file found by the `find` command, and then renames it by removing everything after the `?` character.

Please note that filenames with `?` are quite unusual in Unix-like systems, as `?` is a special character. It's possible that the `?` and everything after it is not actually part of the filename, but a query parameter that was included when the file was downloaded. If that's the case, the `?` and everything after it won't actually be part of the filename on the filesystem, and the `find` command won't find any files to rename.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue here is that the `$(echo {} | sed 's/\?.*//g')` part is evaluated before the `find` command is run, so it doesn't replace `{}` with the filename. You need to use a shell to execute the `mv` command so that the replacement is done for each file.

Here is the corrected command:

```bash
find . -type f -name '*\?*' -exec sh -c 'mv "$0" "$(echo $0 | sed 's/\?.*//g')"' {} \;
```

This command will find all files (`-type f`) in the current directory (`.`) and its subdirectories whose names contain a question mark (`*\?*`). For each of these files, it will execute (`-exec`) the command `sh -c 'mv "$0" "$(echo $0 | sed 's/\?.*//g')"' {} \;`.

The `sh -c` part runs a shell and executes the command given as a string. The `{}` is passed as an argument to the shell and can be accessed as `$0` inside the command string. The `mv` command renames the file by removing the part after the question mark.

Please note that this command will fail if there are multiple files in the same directory that have the same name before the question mark. You might want to add some error checking to handle this case.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The problem is that the command substitution `$(echo {} | sed 's/\?.*//g')` is evaluated before `find` starts its execution, so it doesn't replace `{}` with the actual file name. To solve this, you can use a shell script or a shell function to perform the renaming operation. Here is an example using a bash shell script:

```bash
find . -type f -name '*\?*' | while read -r file; do
    mv -- "$file" "$(echo "$file" | sed 's/\?.*//g')"
done
```

This script reads each file name output by `find`, and then uses `mv` to rename the file. The new name is generated by piping the original file name to `sed`, which removes the `?` and everything after it.

Please note that this script assumes that the `?` in the file names are actual question marks, not URL-encoded characters. If the `?` are URL-encoded characters, you'll need to decode them before you can rename the files.

Also, be aware that if multiple files resolve to the same name after removing the `?` and everything after it, this script will overwrite those files without warning. If this is a concern, you should modify the script to check for this condition and handle it appropriately.

--------
