
# Post \#59725591 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59725591/)

## Powershell Get-Service detailed "DESCRIPTION" of the Windows Service

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 12022 (394/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-656

Created at 2020-01-13 23:20:45

Tags: `powershell` `powershell-2.0` `powershell-3.0` `powershell-4.0` `powershell-remoting`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there a way to get the detailed "DESCRIPTION" of the Service? The below cmdlet can provide all of the properties of Windows Service including display name but it is not getting the "Description"

```
Get-Service | select -Property * | Out-GridView
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `Get-Service` cmdlet in PowerShell does not provide the description of the service. However, you can use the `Get-WmiObject` cmdlet to get the description of the service. Here is an example:

```powershell
Get-WmiObject -Query "Select * From Win32_Service" | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description | Out-GridView
```

This command will get all the services with their names, display names, and descriptions and output them in a grid view.

If you want to get the description of a specific service, you can modify the query. For example, to get the description of the "wuauserv" service, you can use the following command:

```powershell
Get-WmiObject -Query "Select * From Win32_Service Where Name='wuauserv'" | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description
```

This command will output the name, display name, and description of the "wuauserv" service.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can get the detailed description of a service using the `Get-WmiObject` cmdlet. The `Get-Service` cmdlet does not provide the description of the service. Here is how you can get the description:

```powershell
Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Service | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description | Out-GridView
```

This command will get all the services with their names, display names, and descriptions and output them in a grid view.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can get the detailed description of a service using the `Get-WmiObject` cmdlet. The `Get-Service` cmdlet does not provide a description of the service. 

Here is how you can do it:

```powershell
Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Service | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description | Out-GridView
```

This command will get you the Name, DisplayName, and Description of all the services on your machine. 

If you want to get the description of a specific service, you can filter the output like this:

```powershell
Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Service | Where-Object { $_.Name -eq 'YourServiceName' } | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description
```

Just replace 'YourServiceName' with the name of the service you want to get the description for.

--------
