
# Post \#53229221 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53229221/)

## Terminal error: zsh: permission denied: ./startup.sh

**Vote**: 118 (43/702) **Views**: 307793 (20/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-644

Created at 2018-11-09 16:01:15

Tags: `macos` `nginx` `terminal` `sh`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am running a command
```
./startup.sh nginx:start
```

and I am getting this error message
```
zsh: permission denied: ./startup.sh
```

why could this be happening?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error message indicates that you do not have the necessary permissions to execute the `startup.sh` script. 

To fix this, you can try changing the permissions of the file using the `chmod` command. You can do this by running the following command:

```
chmod +x startup.sh
```

This will give the file executable permissions, allowing you to run it. 

If you still encounter issues, you may need to check the ownership of the file and ensure that you have the necessary permissions to execute it. You can do this by running the `ls -l` command to see the file permissions and ownership.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that you do not have the necessary permissions to execute the `startup.sh` script. 

You can try changing the permissions of the script using the `chmod` command. For example, you can run the following command to give execute permissions to the owner of the file:

```
chmod u+x startup.sh
```

Alternatively, you can try running the command with elevated privileges using `sudo`:

```
sudo ./startup.sh nginx:start
```

This will prompt you for your password and then execute the command with root privileges. However, be cautious when using `sudo` as it can potentially cause damage to your system if used improperly.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message indicates that you do not have the necessary permissions to execute the `startup.sh` script. 

You can try granting execute permission to the script by running the following command:

```
chmod +x startup.sh
```

This command will add execute permission to the script, allowing you to run it. 

If you still encounter issues, you may need to check the ownership and permissions of the file and ensure that you have the necessary permissions to execute it.

--------
