
# Post \#57053312 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57053312/)

## How to open Edge using Powershell variable?

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 37145 (200/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-680

Created at 2019-07-16 08:39:30

Tags: `windows` `powershell` `microsoft-edge`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have tried the following:

```
$edge = New-Object -com microsoft-edge.application
$edge.visible = $true
$edge.FullScreen = $true
```


But I get error:

```
New-Object : Retrieving the COM class factory for component with CLSID 
{00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000} failed
due to the following error: 80040154 Class not registered (Exception from 
HRESULT: 0x80040154 (REGDB_E_CLASSNOTREG)).
At line:1 char:9
+ $edge = New-Object -com microsoft-edge.application
+         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
+ CategoryInfo          : ResourceUnavailable: (:) [New-Object], COMException
+ FullyQualifiedErrorId : NoCOMClassIdentified,Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.NewObjectCommand
```


Am I doing something obviously wrong here?

Edit 17/07/2019 - I have changed to below:

```
$edge = Start-Process -FilePath ($Env:WinDir + "\explorer.exe") 
-ArgumentList 
"shell:Appsfolder\Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
$edge.visible = $true
$edge.FullScreen = $true
```


So now Edge opens but the Visible and Fullscreen commands return errors - anyone have any ideas?

Cheers


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you received indicates that the COM class for Microsoft Edge is not registered on your system. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as a corrupted installation of Edge or a missing system component.

As for your updated code, the `Start-Process` cmdlet launches a new process and returns a `Process` object, which does not have a `visible` or `FullScreen` property. These properties are specific to the `InternetExplorer.Application` COM object, which is used to control Internet Explorer.

To control Microsoft Edge, you can try using the `Start-Process` cmdlet to launch Edge with a specific URL, and then use the `SendKeys` method to send keyboard commands to the Edge window. For example:

```
Start-Process microsoft-edge.exe -ArgumentList "https://www.google.com"
Start-Sleep -Seconds 5
Add-Type -AssemblyName System.Windows.Forms
[System.Windows.Forms.SendKeys]::SendWait("{F11}")
```

This code launches Edge with the Google homepage, waits for 5 seconds to allow the page to load, and then sends the F11 key to toggle full-screen mode. Note that this approach may not be very reliable, as it relies on sending keyboard commands to the Edge window, which may not always work as expected.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you received indicates that the COM class for Microsoft Edge is not registered on your system. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as a missing or corrupted installation of Microsoft Edge or a problem with the Windows registry.

As for your updated code, the `Start-Process` cmdlet launches a new process and returns a `System.Diagnostics.Process` object, which does not have a `visible` or `FullScreen` property. These properties are specific to the `MicrosoftEdge.Application` COM object.

To interact with the Microsoft Edge window, you can use the `Invoke-UIAWindow` cmdlet from the UIAutomation module. Here's an example:

```
# Launch Microsoft Edge
Start-Process microsoft-edge

# Wait for the window to appear
Start-Sleep -Seconds 5

# Get the MicrosoftEdge.Application COM object
$edge = New-Object -ComObject MicrosoftEdge.Application

# Get the window handle
$handle = $edge.Windows() | Where-Object { $_.LocationURL -eq 'about:blank' } | Select-Object -ExpandProperty HWND

# Maximize the window
Invoke-UIAWindowPattern -WindowHandle $handle -Maximize

# Wait for the window to finish maximizing
Start-Sleep -Seconds 2

# Minimize the window
Invoke-UIAWindowPattern -WindowHandle $handle -Minimize
```

This code launches Microsoft Edge, waits for the window to appear, gets the `MicrosoftEdge.Application` COM object, finds the window handle for the blank tab, maximizes the window, waits for the window to finish maximizing, and then minimizes the window. You can modify this code to suit your needs.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you received indicates that the COM class for Microsoft Edge is not registered on your system. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as a corrupted installation of Edge or a missing system component.

As for your updated code, the `Start-Process` cmdlet launches a new process, but it does not return an object that you can manipulate like you would with the `New-Object` cmdlet. Therefore, you cannot set the `Visible` and `FullScreen` properties on the `$edge` variable.

To launch Microsoft Edge in full screen mode, you can try the following code:

```
$edgePath = "C:\Windows\SystemApps\Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe\MicrosoftEdge.exe"
$edgeArgs = "-k https://www.example.com" # Replace with your desired URL
Start-Process -FilePath $edgePath -ArgumentList $edgeArgs -WindowStyle Maximized
```

This code launches Edge with the `-k` command-line switch, which opens the browser in full screen mode. The `WindowStyle` parameter of `Start-Process` maximizes the window to fill the screen.

Note that the path to the Edge executable may vary depending on your system configuration. You can check the correct path by opening the Start menu and searching for "Microsoft Edge". Right-click on the Edge icon and select "Open file location" to navigate to the Edge executable.

--------
