
# Post \#69257739 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69257739/)

## bash - get a list of environment variables with proper handling of new lines

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 2004 (605/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-664

Created at 2021-09-20 16:15:32

Tags: `linux` `bash` `newline`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
$ export MYVAR=$(echo -e "something\nMYVAR=10")
$ env
...
MYVAR=something
MYVAR=10
...
```

The code above shows the problem.
If you try to read this using simplified version (and lots of people do it this way) you would will get wrong values. This explains it:
```
$ env | while IFS== read var value; do
    [ "$var" == "MYVAR" ] && echo $value
done
someting
10
```

After long investigation I am wondering if `bash` or `sh` is is simply not capable of handling this case.
If I could get just a list of variables without the values I could have it solved but looks like without an external task (python, for example) I can't do it...
: How, in shell, I can get a list of environment variables with their values that would work with the example above?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The problem you're facing is due to the fact that environment variables are not designed to hold newlines in their values. When you export `MYVAR` with a newline in its value, it's treated as two separate environment variables when you print the environment with `env`. This is why you see `MYVAR=something` and `MYVAR=10` as separate lines.

If you want to handle environment variables with newlines in their values, you'll need to use a different approach. One way is to use the `printenv` command, which can print the value of a single environment variable. This will correctly handle newlines in the value.

Here's an example of how you can use `printenv` to get the value of `MYVAR`:

```bash
$ export MYVAR=$(echo -e "something\nMYVAR=10")
$ printenv MYVAR
something
MYVAR=10
```

If you want to get a list of all environment variables with their values, you can use a loop to call `printenv` for each variable. Here's an example:

```bash
$ for var in $(compgen -e); do
    echo "$var=$(printenv $var)"
done
```

This will print each environment variable and its value, correctly handling newlines in the values. Note that this will not work correctly if an environment variable's name contains a newline, but such names are extremely rare and generally considered a bad practice.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're facing is due to the way you're setting the environment variable `MYVAR`. When you use the `export` command, it treats the entire string as the value of the variable, including the newline and the `MYVAR=10` part. This is why when you read the environment variables, you're seeing two values for `MYVAR`.

If you want to set multiple values for `MYVAR`, you should use an array. Here's how you can do it:

```bash
$ MYVAR=("something" "10")
$ echo ${MYVAR[0]}
something
$ echo ${MYVAR[1]}
10
```

However, if you want to get a list of environment variables with their values, you can use the `printenv` command:

```bash
$ printenv
```

This will print all environment variables with their values. If you want to print a specific variable, you can do so by passing the variable name as an argument:

```bash
$ printenv MYVAR
```

If you want to parse the output in a similar way to your original script, you can do so like this:

```bash
$ printenv | while IFS== read var value; do
    [ "$var" == "MYVAR" ] && echo $value
done
```

This will print the value of `MYVAR`, regardless of whether it contains newlines or not.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The problem you're encountering is due to the fact that environment variables in Unix-like systems cannot contain newline characters. When you're setting `MYVAR` to a value that contains a newline, it's actually being split into two separate variables, which is not what you want.

If you need to store multiline data in an environment variable, you'll need to encode it in some way that removes the newlines. One common way to do this is to use base64 encoding.

Here's how you can do it:

```bash
$ export MYVAR=$(echo -e "something\nMYVAR=10" | base64)
$ echo $MYVAR | base64 --decode
something
MYVAR=10
```

In this example, `MYVAR` is being set to the base64-encoded version of your string. When you want to use the value of `MYVAR`, you'll need to decode it using `base64 --decode`.

If you want to get a list of all environment variables along with their values, you can use the `env` command without any arguments:

```bash
$ env
```

This will print out all environment variables and their values, one per line. If you have any variables that contain newline characters, they will appear as separate lines in the output, which may not be what you want. To avoid this, you could base64 encode all your variables as described above.

--------
