
# Post \#57883333 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57883333/)

## How can I add an already generated SSH key to git bash?

**Vote**: 26 (219/702) **Views**: 76891 (111/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-654

Created at 2019-09-11 06:32:08

Tags: `bash` `git` `ssh` `putty` `ssh-keys`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an SSH key saved in `D:/keys folder`. I want to add it to my git bash. All the tutorials I found is how to generate SSH key using gitbash and load it to github/gitlab. I generated my SSH key using puttygen. Now I want to add it to my git bash so that I can clone a repository from remote. How can I do that?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To add your existing SSH key to Git Bash, you need to follow these steps:

1. Open Git Bash and navigate to your home directory by typing `cd ~` in the terminal.

2. Create a new directory called `.ssh` by typing `mkdir .ssh`.

3. Move your SSH key file to the `.ssh` directory by typing `mv D:/keys/id_rsa ~/.ssh/`.

4. Change the permissions of the SSH key file by typing `chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa`.

5. Add the SSH key to the ssh-agent by typing `ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa`.

6. Verify that the SSH key has been added by typing `ssh-add -l`.

Now you should be able to clone a repository from a remote server using Git Bash.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To add your existing SSH key to Git Bash, you can follow these steps:

1. Open Git Bash and navigate to your home directory by typing `cd ~` and pressing Enter.

2. Create a new directory called `.ssh` by typing `mkdir .ssh` and pressing Enter.

3. Move your SSH key file to the `.ssh` directory by typing `mv /d/keys/id_rsa ~/.ssh/` and pressing Enter. Replace `/d/keys` with the path to your key file and `id_rsa` with the name of your key file.

4. Change the permissions of your SSH key file by typing `chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa` and pressing Enter.

5. Open the `config` file in the `.ssh` directory by typing `nano ~/.ssh/config` and pressing Enter.

6. Add the following lines to the `config` file:

```
Host github.com
  IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

Replace `github.com` with the hostname of the remote repository you want to clone.

7. Save the `config` file by pressing Ctrl+X, then Y, then Enter.

Now you should be able to clone the remote repository using Git Bash without having to enter your SSH key passphrase every time.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To add your existing SSH key to Git Bash, you need to follow these steps:

1. Open Git Bash and navigate to your home directory by typing `cd ~` in the terminal.

2. Create a new directory called `.ssh` by typing `mkdir .ssh`.

3. Move your SSH key file to the `.ssh` directory by typing `mv D:/keys/id_rsa ~/.ssh/`.

4. Change the permissions of the SSH key file by typing `chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa`.

5. Add the SSH key to the SSH agent by typing `ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa`.

6. Verify that the SSH key has been added to the agent by typing `ssh-add -l`.

Now you should be able to clone a repository from a remote server using Git Bash without having to enter your SSH passphrase every time.

--------
