
# Post \#51406685 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51406685/)

## Powershell: How do I install the Nuget provider for PowerShell on a unconnected machine so I can install a nuget package from the PS command line?

**Vote**: 71 (93/702) **Views**: 211681 (35/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-645

Created at 2018-07-18 16:15:24

Tags: `powershell` `nuget`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to install `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg` from the Powershell command line on a Win 7 computer not connected to the internet. I'm running PS  5.1.14409.1005. I obtained the nupkg from [https://www.preview.powershellgallery.com/packages/PSWindowsUpdate/2.0.0.4](https://www.preview.powershellgallery.com/packages/PSWindowsUpdate/2.0.0.4)

The `PS` command `Install-Module -Name pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg -Repository {path to pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg}` throws an error message:

> PowerShellGet requires NuGet provider version '2.8.5.201' or newer to interact with NuGet-based repositories. The NuGet provider must be available in 'C:\Program Files\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies' or 'C:\Users{my login}\AppData\Local\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies'. You can also install the NuGet provider by running 'Install-PackageProvider -Name NuGet -MinimumVersion 2.8.5.201 -Force'. Do you want PowerShell to install and import the NuGet provider now?

Saying 'yes', of course, fails to install the NuGet provider because I'm not connected to the internet.

I obtained `nuget.exe` (v4.7.0), stored it in 'C:\Program Files\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies' and added 'C:\Program Files\PackageManagement\ProviderAssemblies' to my `path` statement. However, executing `Install-Module -Name pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg -Repository {path to pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg}` still fails.

What exactly is a `NuGet provider`? Is it just nuget.exe? How do I obtain and install the Nuget provider (v2.8.5.201 or greater) for PowerShell so I can install this nuget package from the PowerShell command line?




----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

A NuGet provider is a PowerShell module that allows you to interact with NuGet-based repositories. It is not the same as the NuGet command-line tool (nuget.exe), although the provider does use the tool to perform some of its functions.

To install the NuGet provider without an internet connection, you can download the NuGet provider module from the PowerShell Gallery on a computer that is connected to the internet, and then copy it to the target computer.

Here are the steps to do this:

1. On a computer that is connected to the internet, open a PowerShell console and run the following command to download the NuGet provider module:

   ```powershell
   Save-Module -Name NuGet -Path C:\temp
   ```

   This will download the latest version of the NuGet provider module and save it to the C:\temp directory.

2. Copy the downloaded module to the target computer using a USB drive or other method.

3. On the target computer, open a PowerShell console and run the following command to import the NuGet provider module:

   ```powershell
   Import-Module C:\path\to\NuGet\2.8.5.201\NuGet.psd1
   ```

   Replace "C:\path\to\NuGet\2.8.5.201" with the path to the directory where you copied the NuGet provider module.

4. Once the NuGet provider is installed, you should be able to install the PSWindowsUpdate module using the following command:

   ```powershell
   Install-Module -Name PSWindowsUpdate -RequiredVersion 2.0.0.4 -AllowClobber -Verbose -SkipPublisherCheck -Force
   ```

   Replace "-RequiredVersion 2.0.0.4" with the version of the PSWindowsUpdate module that you want to install, and adjust the other parameters as needed.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

A NuGet provider is a package provider for PowerShell that allows you to interact with NuGet-based repositories. It is not just nuget.exe, but rather a set of PowerShell cmdlets that allow you to search for, install, and manage packages from NuGet-based repositories.

To install the NuGet provider, you can download the NuGet package from the official NuGet website (https://www.nuget.org/downloads) on a computer with internet access and transfer it to your Win 7 computer. Then, you can install it using the following command:

```
Install-PackageProvider -Name NuGet -MinimumVersion 2.8.5.201 -Force -ProviderName NuGet -SourcePath {path to NuGet package}
```

Replace `{path to NuGet package}` with the path to the NuGet package you downloaded.

Once the NuGet provider is installed, you should be able to install the PSWindowsUpdate module using the following command:

```
Install-Module -Name PSWindowsUpdate -RequiredVersion 2.0.0.4 -AllowClobber -Verbose -SkipPublisherCheck -Path {path to pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg}
```

Replace `{path to pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg}` with the path to the PSWindowsUpdate package you downloaded.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

A NuGet provider is a PowerShell module that allows you to interact with NuGet-based repositories. It is not the same as the `nuget.exe` command-line tool, although the provider may use `nuget.exe` under the hood.

To install the NuGet provider without an internet connection, you can download the NuGet provider module from the PowerShell Gallery on a computer with internet access, transfer it to the offline computer, and then install it manually.

Here are the steps to do this:

1. On a computer with internet access, open a PowerShell console and run the following command to download the NuGet provider module:

   ```
   Save-Module -Name NuGet -Path C:\Temp
   ```

   This will download the latest version of the NuGet provider module and save it to the `C:\Temp` directory.

2. Transfer the `NuGet` directory from `C:\Temp` to the offline computer.

3. On the offline computer, open a PowerShell console and run the following command to install the NuGet provider module:

   ```
   Import-Module C:\Path\To\NuGet\NuGet\2.8.5.201\NuGet.psd1
   ```

   Replace `C:\Path\To\NuGet` with the path to the directory where you transferred the `NuGet` directory.

4. Once the NuGet provider is installed, you should be able to install the `PSWindowsUpdate` module using the following command:

   ```
   Install-Module -Name PSWindowsUpdate -RequiredVersion 2.0.0.4 -AllowClobber -Verbose -SkipPublisherCheck -Scope AllUsers -Repository C:\Path\To\PSWindowsUpdate\PSWindowsUpdate\2.0.0.4
   ```

   Replace `C:\Path\To\PSWindowsUpdate` with the path to the directory where you saved the `pswindowsupdate.2.0.0.4.nupkg` file.

Note that the `-SkipPublisherCheck` parameter is used to bypass the publisher check for the `PSWindowsUpdate` module, since it is not signed. This is necessary to install the module without an internet connection.

--------
