
# Post \#61125013 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61125013/)

## How can I minify JSON in a shell script?

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 13614 (377/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-662

Created at 2020-04-09 15:46:54

Tags: `json` `unix` `command-line` `minify`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash` `json`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've been looking for a way to uglify some JSON while in my bash console. This help using it afterward in another command (for example, to pass json inline to `httpie`)

Giving:

```
{
    "foo": "lorem",
    "bar": "ipsum"
}
```


I want to obtain:

```
{"foo":"lorem","bar":"ipsum"}
```


[it's pretty-print counterpart](https://stackoverflow.com/q/352098/6320039)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `jq` command-line tool to achieve this. `jq` is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor.

To uglify your JSON, you can pipe it to `jq` and use the `-c` option to output the JSON in compact form:

```
$ echo '{"foo": "lorem", "bar": "ipsum"}' | jq -c
{"foo":"lorem","bar":"ipsum"}
```

You can then use this output in another command, such as `httpie`:

```
$ echo '{"foo": "lorem", "bar": "ipsum"}' | jq -c | http POST http://example.com/api/data
```

This will send the uglified JSON to the specified URL using the `POST` method.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `jq` command-line tool to achieve this. `jq` is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor. Here's how you can use it to uglify your JSON:

```
$ echo '{ "foo": "lorem", "bar": "ipsum" }' | jq -c '.'
```

The `-c` option tells `jq` to output the result in compact (uglified) form. The `.` argument is a filter that selects the entire input object.

The above command will output:

```
{"foo":"lorem","bar":"ipsum"}
```

You can then pipe this output to another command, such as `httpie`, like this:

```
$ echo '{ "foo": "lorem", "bar": "ipsum" }' | jq -c '.' | http POST http://example.com/api -j
```

The `-j` option tells `httpie` to read the request body as JSON.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `jq` command-line tool to achieve this. `jq` is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor that can be used to manipulate and transform JSON data.

To uglify your JSON, you can use the following command:

```
jq -c . input.json
```

This will read the JSON data from the `input.json` file and output it in a compact format. The `-c` option tells `jq` to output the data in a compact form, and the `.` argument specifies that the entire input should be processed.

If you want to pass the JSON data directly to another command, you can use command substitution to capture the output of the `jq` command and use it as input to the next command. For example, to pass the uglified JSON to `httpie`, you can use the following command:

```
http POST http://example.com/api data="$(jq -c . input.json)"
```

This will send a POST request to `http://example.com/api` with the uglified JSON data as the request body. The `$()` syntax is used to capture the output of the `jq` command and insert it into the `data` parameter of the `http` command.

--------
