
# Post \#57262349 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57262349/)

## Restart terminal without closing on MacOS

**Vote**: 56 (116/702) **Views**: 81603 (104/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-698

Created at 2019-07-29 23:03:31

Tags: `bash` `macos` `terminal`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How to restart my current MacOS terminal session without closing the window?
In Linux I use `exec bash` but it does not work in this environment. I made a few changes to the `.bash_profile` (prompt, alias etc) I would like to see without closing it and opening again.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In MacOS, you can restart your current terminal session by using the following command:

```
source ~/.bash_profile
```

This will reload your updated `.bash_profile` file and apply any changes you have made to it. You can also use this command to reload any other configuration files that you have modified.

Alternatively, you can use the `exec bash` command in MacOS terminal as well, but you need to use it slightly differently. Instead of typing `exec bash` directly into the terminal, you need to type:

```
exec $SHELL
```

This will restart your current terminal session and reload your updated `.bash_profile` file.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In MacOS, you can restart your current terminal session without closing the window by using the following command:

```
source ~/.bash_profile
```

This will reload your updated `.bash_profile` file and apply any changes you made to it. 

Alternatively, you can also use the following command to reload your current shell:

```
exec $SHELL
```

This will restart your current shell session and apply any changes you made to your `.bash_profile` file.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In macOS, you can restart your current terminal session without closing the window by using the following command:

```
source ~/.bash_profile
```

This command will reload your `.bash_profile` file and apply any changes you have made to it. Your prompt and aliases should be updated immediately.

Alternatively, you can use the following command to start a new shell session within the same terminal window:

```
bash
```

This will start a new instance of the Bash shell within your current terminal window, allowing you to see any changes you have made to your `.bash_profile`.

--------
