
# Post \#69257739 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69257739/)

## bash - get a list of environment variables with proper handling of new lines

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 2004 (605/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-664

Created at 2021-09-20 16:15:32

Tags: `linux` `bash` `newline`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
$ export MYVAR=$(echo -e "something\nMYVAR=10")
$ env
...
MYVAR=something
MYVAR=10
...
```

The code above shows the problem.
If you try to read this using simplified version (and lots of people do it this way) you would will get wrong values. This explains it:
```
$ env | while IFS== read var value; do
    [ "$var" == "MYVAR" ] && echo $value
done
someting
10
```

After long investigation I am wondering if `bash` or `sh` is is simply not capable of handling this case.
If I could get just a list of variables without the values I could have it solved but looks like without an external task (python, for example) I can't do it...
: How, in shell, I can get a list of environment variables with their values that would work with the example above?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `declare` command in bash to get a list of environment variables with their values. Here's an example:

```
$ export MYVAR=$(echo -e "something\nMYVAR=10")
$ declare -p | grep -E '^declare -x [^=]+='
declare -x MYVAR="something\nMYVAR=10"
```

The `declare -p` command prints all defined variables in a format that can be used to recreate them, and the `grep` command filters out only the lines that define environment variables. This way, you can get a list of environment variables with their values, even if they contain newlines or other special characters.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To get a list of environment variables with their values that would work with the example above, you can use the `printenv` command instead of `env`. The `printenv` command prints the values of all environment variables in the format `VAR=VALUE`, which can be easily parsed using the `read` command. Here's an example:

```
$ export MYVAR=$(echo -e "something\nMYVAR=10")
$ printenv | while IFS= read -r line; do
    var=$(echo "$line" | cut -d= -f1)
    value=$(echo "$line" | cut -d= -f2-)
    [ "$var" == "MYVAR" ] && echo "$value"
done
something\nMYVAR=10
```

In this example, we use `printenv` to print all environment variables and their values. We then use a `while` loop to read each line of output and parse it using the `cut` command. The `var` variable contains the name of the environment variable, and the `value` variable contains its value. We then check if the variable name is `MYVAR` and print its value if it is.

Note that the value of `MYVAR` contains a newline character (`\n`), which is preserved by `printenv`. If you want to remove it, you can use the `tr` command to replace it with an empty string:

```
$ export MYVAR=$(echo -e "something\nMYVAR=10")
$ printenv | while IFS= read -r line; do
    var=$(echo "$line" | cut -d= -f1)
    value=$(echo "$line" | cut -d= -f2- | tr -d '\n')
    [ "$var" == "MYVAR" ] && echo "$value"
done
somethingMYVAR=10
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `printenv` command to get a list of environment variables with their values. Here's an example:

```
$ export MYVAR=$(echo -e "something\nMYVAR=10")
$ printenv | while IFS== read var value; do
    [ "$var" == "MYVAR" ] && echo $value
done
something\nMYVAR=10
```

As you can see, the `printenv` command returns the environment variables with their values, including the value of `MYVAR` that was set using the `echo` command. You can then use the `while` loop to extract the value of `MYVAR` correctly.

--------
