
# Post \#66523432 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66523432/)

## Run Power Automate flow from Windows Desktop via shortcut key or command line / shell

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 12597 (389/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-647

Created at 2021-03-08 01:55:36

Tags: `powershell` `power-automate`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like to run a Power Automate flow by pressing a keyboard shortcut or alternatively calling it up from CMD or Powershell script.
The flow would simply start execution once the keyboard shortcut is pressed or a Powershell script is run.
As it is now; I need to start Power Automate and then click on play in order to start a specific flow. I am trying to avoid all that.
The ultimate goal is to, once the system is up (Windows 10) and I'm logged it, I press the shortcut key and go do something else and by the time I get back the flow is done. The flow itself works flawlessly. Please note that I am not looking for a solution which would involve smartphones and flow buttons on said phones, purely  a Windows , PC, only solution or a way to a solution.


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 8

Created at 2021-04-29 23:55:58

------------

[Here](https://i.stack.imgur.com/v2cFO.png) is a picture to clarify what Lukas was describing as a workaround.
Create a loop and make sure that the index variable for the loop is 0 so that it will never stop looping. Then make sure to put a 'wait for shortcut key' inside of the loop with you desired shortcut. Below that action and still inside of the loop, put all of your actions.
Run the script and the script will enter the loop at the 'wait for shortcut action. When the shortcut is pressed it will run all of the actions and then loop back to the 'wait for shortcut action again. As long as the script is running in the background the shortcut can trigger it.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 4

Created at 2021-04-02 17:18:11

------------

Surprisingly, I do not think there is a way to do this.  The best solution would probably be to use AutoIT to create a small automation to start your PAD flow.
As long as you're somewhat familiar with programming and even if you're not familiar with AutoIT, it shouldn't take you but a couple hours to write a script that is activatable via hotkey that opens PAD and starts the flow you want.
The AutoIT help file that you get when you install should be all the guidance you need.
(Depending on what your flow actually does, you might be better off just writing your whole automation in AutoIT)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 2

Created at 2022-06-29 16:04:51

------------

You actually don't need to put everything in a loop, the loop is just from the end of the script to the top label. You just need a label at the top (if you want to be able to press the shortcut more than once), a wait for shortcut key event, and at the end a "go to the label" you created (in the image below it's 'start').
Then you can save the flow and start it. Nothing will happen until you press your shortcut key. Then the flow will execute, and return to the top, waiting for you to press your shortcut again.
You can even have errors go to the start label, instead of ending the script, so that the flow "stays alive".
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/WZ2li.png)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 0

Created at 2021-04-15 09:31:26

------------

Just put label on top of your code and then "Wait for shortcut key" and at the end use "go to" function, that will loop the code. This works for me


------------
    
    