
# Post \#52170699 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52170699/)

## How to save each line of text file as array through powershell

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 89017 (93/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-650

Created at 2018-09-04 16:40:47

Tags: `arrays` `powershell` `file-io` `line` `powershell-cmdlet`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

If I have a text file, C:\USER\Documents\Collections\collection.txt that has the following information:

```
collectionA.json
collectionB.json
collectionC.json
collectionD.json
```


I am wondering how, through Powershell, I am able to store each line in the text file as elements of an array such as..

```
array arrayFromFile = new Array;
foreach(line x in collection.txt)
{
    arrayFromFile.Add(x);
}
```


..with the end goal of doing the following:

```
foreach(string x in arrayFromFile)
{
    newman run x;
}
```


My apologies for the seemingly easy question - I have never dealt with Powershell before.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

No problem at all! Here's how you can do it in PowerShell:

First, you can read the text file and store each line in an array with the `Get-Content` cmdlet:

```powershell
$arrayFromFile = Get-Content -Path "C:\USER\Documents\Collections\collection.txt"
```

Then, you can iterate over each element in the array and run your command:

```powershell
foreach ($x in $arrayFromFile) {
    newman run $x
}
```

So, your complete script would look like this:

```powershell
$arrayFromFile = Get-Content -Path "C:\USER\Documents\Collections\collection.txt"

foreach ($x in $arrayFromFile) {
    newman run $x
}
```

This script reads the file `collection.txt`, stores each line as an element in the array `$arrayFromFile`, and then runs the `newman run` command for each element in the array.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

No problem at all, I'm here to help! Here's how you can do it in PowerShell:

First, you can read the file and store each line in an array using the `Get-Content` cmdlet:

```powershell
$arrayFromFile = Get-Content -Path "C:\USER\Documents\Collections\collection.txt"
```

Then, you can iterate over each element in the array and run your command:

```powershell
foreach($x in $arrayFromFile)
{
    newman run $x
}
```

So, your complete script would look like this:

```powershell
$arrayFromFile = Get-Content -Path "C:\USER\Documents\Collections\collection.txt"

foreach($x in $arrayFromFile)
{
    newman run $x
}
```

This script reads the file `collection.txt`, stores each line in the array `$arrayFromFile`, and then runs the `newman run` command for each element in the array.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

No problem at all, we all start somewhere. Here's how you can do it in PowerShell:

First, you can read the file and store each line in an array using the `Get-Content` cmdlet:

```powershell
$arrayFromFile = Get-Content -Path "C:\USER\Documents\Collections\collection.txt"
```

Then, you can iterate over each element in the array and run your command:

```powershell
foreach($x in $arrayFromFile)
{
    newman run $x
}
```

Please note that the `newman run` command will only work if `newman` is installed and recognized as a command in your PowerShell environment. If it's not recognized, you might need to provide the full path to the `newman` executable or add it to your system's PATH.

Also, PowerShell uses `$` to denote variables, and you don't need to declare the type of a variable when you create it. PowerShell will automatically determine the type based on the value you assign to it.

--------
