
# Post \#71384840 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71384840/)

## How to execute Powershell's "start-process -Verb RunAs" from inside a Batch where the elevated command inherits the Batch's environment?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 3051 (568/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-676

Created at 2022-03-07 17:13:33

Tags: `powershell` `batch-file` `cmd` `admin` `elevation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


## 1. Problem


I have a complicated batch file where some parts need to run with elevated/admin rights (e.g. interacting with Windows services) and I found a Powershell way to do that:
```
powershell.exe -command "try {$proc = start-process -wait -Verb runas -filepath '%~nx0' -ArgumentList '<arguments>'; exit $proc.ExitCode} catch {write-host $Error; exit -10}"
```

But there's a huge caveat! The elevated instance of my script (`%~nx0`) starts with a fresh copy of environment variables and everything I `set "var=content"` before is unavailable.

## 2. What I've tried so far


This Powershell script doesn't help either because `Verb = "RunAs"` requires `UseShellExecute = $true` which in turn is mutually exclusive to/with `StartInfo.EnvironmentVariables.Add()`
```
$p = New-Object System.Diagnostics.Process
$p.StartInfo.FileName = "cmd.exe";
$p.StartInfo.Arguments = '/k set blasfg'
$p.StartInfo.UseShellExecute = $true;
$p.StartInfo.Verb = "RunAs";
$p.StartInfo.EnvironmentVariables.Add("blasfg", "C:\\Temp")

$p.Start() | Out-Null
$p.WaitForExit()
exit $p.ExitCode
```

And even if that would work I'd still need to  dozens of variables...

## 3. unappealing semi-solutions




1. helper tools like hstart - because I can't relay on external tools. Only CMD, Powershell and maybe VBscript (but it looks like runas plus wait and errorlevel/ExitCode processing isn't possible with/in vbs).
2. passing (only required) variables as arguments - because I need dozens and escaping them is an ugly chore (both the result and doing it).
3. restarting the whole script - because it's inefficient with all the parsing, checking processing and other tasks happening again (and again and ...). I'd like to keep the elevated parts to a minimum and some actions can later be run as a normal user (e.g service start/stop).
4. Writing the environment to a file and rereading it in the elevated instance - because it's an ugly hack and I'd hope there's a cleaner option out there. And writing possibly sensitive information to a file is even worse than storing it temporarily in an environment variable.




----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

One possible solution to this problem is to use the Windows registry to store the required environment variables and then read them back in the elevated instance of the script. Here's how you can do it:

1. In the original instance of the script, save the required environment variables to the registry using the following command:
```
reg add HKCU\Environment /v VARNAME /t REG_SZ /d VALUE /f
```
Replace VARNAME with the name of the environment variable and VALUE with its value.

2. In the elevated instance of the script, read the environment variables from the registry using the following command:
```
$env:VARNAME = (Get-ItemProperty -Path "Registry::HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Environment" -Name VARNAME).VARNAME
```
Replace VARNAME with the name of the environment variable.

3. Use the environment variables as usual in the elevated instance of the script.

4. After the elevated instance of the script has finished, you can remove the environment variables from the registry using the following command:
```
reg delete HKCU\Environment /v VARNAME /f
```
Replace VARNAME with the name of the environment variable.

This solution has the advantage of not requiring any external tools and not writing sensitive information to a file. However, it does require modifying the Windows registry, which may not be desirable in some situations.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

One possible solution to this problem is to use the Windows registry to store the required environment variables and then retrieve them in the elevated instance of the script. Here's how you can do it:

1. In the non-elevated instance of the script, set the required environment variables and then write them to the registry using the following command:

```
reg add HKCU\Environment /v VAR_NAME /t REG_SZ /d VAR_VALUE /f
```

Replace VAR_NAME and VAR_VALUE with the name and value of the environment variable you want to store.

2. In the elevated instance of the script, retrieve the environment variables from the registry using the following command:

```
$env:VAR_NAME = (Get-ItemProperty -Path "Registry::HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Environment" -Name VAR_NAME).VAR_NAME
```

Replace VAR_NAME with the name of the environment variable you want to retrieve.

3. You can now use the retrieved environment variables in the elevated instance of the script.

Note that this solution requires the script to have write access to the registry, which may not be possible in some environments. Also, storing sensitive information in the registry is not recommended.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

One possible solution to this problem is to use the Windows Registry to store the required environment variables and then retrieve them in the elevated instance of the script. Here's how you can do it:

1. In the non-elevated instance of the script, set the required environment variables and then write them to the Windows Registry using the following command:
```
reg add HKCU\Environment /v VAR_NAME /t REG_SZ /d "VAR_VALUE" /f
```
Replace VAR_NAME and VAR_VALUE with the name and value of the environment variable you want to store.

2. In the elevated instance of the script, retrieve the environment variables from the Windows Registry using the following command:
```
$env:VAR_NAME = (Get-ItemProperty -Path "Registry::HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Environment" -Name "VAR_NAME").VAR_NAME
```
Replace VAR_NAME with the name of the environment variable you want to retrieve.

3. You can now use the retrieved environment variables in the elevated instance of the script.

4. Once you're done with the elevated part of the script, you can remove the environment variables from the Windows Registry using the following command:
```
reg delete HKCU\Environment /v VAR_NAME /f
```
Replace VAR_NAME with the name of the environment variable you want to remove.

This solution avoids the need to pass dozens of variables as arguments or write them to a file. It also avoids the need to restart the whole script or use external tools.

--------
