
# Post \#57883333 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57883333/)

## How can I add an already generated SSH key to git bash?

**Vote**: 26 (219/702) **Views**: 76891 (111/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-654

Created at 2019-09-11 06:32:08

Tags: `bash` `git` `ssh` `putty` `ssh-keys`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an SSH key saved in `D:/keys folder`. I want to add it to my git bash. All the tutorials I found is how to generate SSH key using gitbash and load it to github/gitlab. I generated my SSH key using puttygen. Now I want to add it to my git bash so that I can clone a repository from remote. How can I do that?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can add your SSH key to Git Bash by following these steps:

1. Open Git Bash.

2. If you haven't already, you should first set up a `ssh-agent` to manage your SSH keys for you.

   Start the ssh-agent in the background by typing:

   ```bash
   eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
   ```

   You should see something like `Agent pid 59566`.

3. Now you need to add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent. If you created your key with a different name, or if you are adding an existing key that has a different name, replace `id_rsa` in the command with the name of your private key file.

   ```bash
   ssh-add ~/path/to/your/key
   ```

   In your case, the command would be:

   ```bash
   ssh-add /d/keys\ folder/id_rsa
   ```

   Replace `id_rsa` with the name of your private key if it's different.

4. Now your SSH key has been added to Git Bash and you can use it to clone a repository from remote.

Please note that the path to the key file in the `ssh-add` command should be the exact path where your private key is located. If the path or filename contains spaces, you should enclose it in double quotes. For example:

```bash
ssh-add "/d/keys folder/id_rsa"
```

Also, please note that the private key file should be in OpenSSH format to be used with Git Bash. If you have generated your key pair with PuTTYgen, you might have a key in a PuTTY-specific format (.ppk). In that case, you need to convert it to the OpenSSH format. You can do this using PuTTYgen: load your .ppk file and then go to Conversions > Export OpenSSH key.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can add your SSH key to Git Bash by following these steps:

1. Open Git Bash.

2. If you haven't already, you should first ensure ssh-agent is running using the command:

   ```bash
   eval $(ssh-agent -s)
   ```
   This will start ssh-agent if it's not already running, and set up the necessary environment variables.

3. Now you can add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent. If you created your key with a different name, or if you are adding an existing key that has a different name, replace id_rsa in the command with the name of your private key file.

   ```bash
   ssh-add 'D:/keys folder/id_rsa'
   ```
   Replace `id_rsa` with your private key file name.

4. Now your SSH key has been added to Git Bash and you should be able to use it to clone your repository.

Note: Make sure your private key is in OpenSSH format. If it's not, you can convert it using PuTTYgen: Load your private key -> Conversions -> Export OpenSSH key.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

To add your SSH key to Git Bash, you need to follow these steps:

1. Open Git Bash.

2. If you don't have a `~/.ssh` directory, create one using the command `mkdir ~/.ssh`.

3. Now, you need to copy your SSH key to the `~/.ssh` directory. Since you have your SSH key in `D:/keys folder`, you can use the `cp` command to copy the key. Replace `your_key` with the name of your key file:

```bash
cp /d/keys\ folder/your_key ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

4. Set the permissions for the key:

```bash
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

5. Now, you need to start the ssh-agent in the background:

```bash
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
```

6. Add your SSH private key to the ssh-agent:

```bash
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

Now, your SSH key has been added to Git Bash and you can use it to clone a repository from remote.

Please note that the above steps assume that your key is an RSA key, and that's why we are using `id_rsa` as the name. If your key is a different type, you need to use the appropriate name. For example, for an ECDSA key, you would use `id_ecdsa`.

Also, please note that Git Bash uses the OpenSSH format for keys. If your key was generated with Puttygen, it might be in a different format (PPK). If that's the case, you need to convert your key to the OpenSSH format using Puttygen before you can use it with Git Bash.

--------
