
# Post \#56264165 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56264165/)

## field is immutable k8s

**Vote**: 21 (256/702) **Views**: 33604 (214/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-686

Created at 2019-05-22 20:01:41

Tags: `bash` `kubernetes`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to deploy an application to GCP on kubernetes, however, the deployment fails with the error `the job spec is invalid ... the field is immutable`.

In the migration job, I have a section of bash in the following format:

```
args:
        - |
          /cloud_sql_proxy -instances=xxxxxxxxxxx:europe-west1:xxxxxxxxxxx=tcp:5432 -credential_file=/secrets/cloudsql/credentials.json -log_debug_stdout=true &
          CHILD_PID=$!
          (while true; do echo "waiting for termination file"; if [[ -f "/tmp/pod/main-terminated" ]]; then kill ; echo "Killed  as the main container terminated."; fi; sleep 1; done) &
          wait 
          if [[ -f "/tmp/pod/main-terminated" ]]; then exit 0; echo "Job completed. Exiting..."; fi
```


but when the file is executed, in the yaml on GCP I see that the command has been enclosed in quotes and then it returns the above mention error.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is likely due to trying to update an immutable field in a Kubernetes object. Once a Kubernetes object is created, some fields are immutable and cannot be changed. If you try to change these fields, you will get an error message like the one you're seeing.

In your case, it seems like you're trying to update the `args` field of a Kubernetes Job. This field is immutable once the Job has been created. If you need to change the `args` field, you will need to delete the existing Job and create a new one with the updated `args`.

However, the issue you're facing might be due to the way you're formatting your bash script in the `args` field. Kubernetes expects the `args` field to be a list of strings, not a single string containing a bash script. 

You can try to split your bash script into separate strings like this:

```yaml
args:
  - "/bin/bash"
  - "-c"
  - |
    /cloud_sql_proxy -instances=xxxxxxxxxxx:europe-west1:xxxxxxxxxxx=tcp:5432 -credential_file=/secrets/cloudsql/credentials.json -log_debug_stdout=true &
    CHILD_PID=$!
    (while true; do echo "waiting for termination file"; if [[ -f "/tmp/pod/main-terminated" ]]; then kill $CHILD_PID; echo "Killed $CHILD_PID as the main container terminated."; fi; sleep 1; done) &
    wait $CHILD_PID
    if [[ -f "/tmp/pod/main-terminated" ]]; then exit 0; echo "Job completed. Exiting..."; fi
```

This way, the bash script is passed as a single argument to the `/bin/bash -c` command, which should be able to execute it correctly.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message `the job spec is invalid ... the field is immutable` usually means that you're trying to update a field in a Kubernetes object that cannot be updated once the object is created. 

In your case, it seems like you're trying to update the `args` field of a container in a Job. Once a Job is created, the `args` field is immutable, meaning it cannot be updated. If you need to change the `args`, you will need to delete the Job and create a new one.

As for the issue with the command being enclosed in quotes, it's likely because the YAML parser is interpreting the entire command as a single string. To fix this, you can try splitting the command into multiple strings like this:

```yaml
args:
  - /bin/bash
  - -c
  - |
    /cloud_sql_proxy -instances=xxxxxxxxxxx:europe-west1:xxxxxxxxxxx=tcp:5432 -credential_file=/secrets/cloudsql/credentials.json -log_debug_stdout=true &
    CHILD_PID=$!
    (while true; do echo "waiting for termination file"; if [[ -f "/tmp/pod/main-terminated" ]]; then kill $CHILD_PID; echo "Killed $CHILD_PID as the main container terminated."; fi; sleep 1; done) &
    wait $CHILD_PID
    if [[ -f "/tmp/pod/main-terminated" ]]; then exit 0; echo "Job completed. Exiting..."; fi
```

This way, the command is split into multiple strings, each of which is passed as a separate argument to the container's entrypoint. The `-c` flag tells bash to read commands from the following string, which is the rest of your script.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message `the job spec is invalid ... the field is immutable` typically means that you're trying to update a field on a Kubernetes object that cannot be updated once the object is created. 

In your case, it seems like you're trying to update the `args` field of a container in a Job. Once a Job is created, the `args` field is immutable and cannot be updated. If you need to change the `args` field, you would need to delete and recreate the Job.

However, the issue you're facing might be due to the way you're defining your `args` in the yaml file. In Kubernetes, `args` should be a list of strings, not a single string. 

Try to split your bash script into separate strings like this:

```yaml
args:
  - "/cloud_sql_proxy -instances=xxxxxxxxxxx:europe-west1:xxxxxxxxxxx=tcp:5432 -credential_file=/secrets/cloudsql/credentials.json -log_debug_stdout=true &"
  - "CHILD_PID=$!"
  - "(while true; do echo 'waiting for termination file'; if [[ -f '/tmp/pod/main-terminated' ]]; then kill ; echo 'Killed  as the main container terminated.'; fi; sleep 1; done) &"
  - "wait"
  - "if [[ -f '/tmp/pod/main-terminated' ]]; then exit 0; echo 'Job completed. Exiting...'; fi"
```

If this doesn't work, you might need to put your bash script into a separate script file, add it to your Docker image, and then call that script in your `args` field like this:

```yaml
args: ["/path/to/your/script.sh"]
```

Remember to make your script executable (`chmod +x /path/to/your/script.sh`) in your Dockerfile before you run it.

--------
