
# Post \#60122188 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60122188/)

## How to turn off the pager for AWS CLI return value?

**Vote**: 75 (83/702) **Views**: 23240 (272/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-652

Created at 2020-02-07 22:54:49

Tags: `bash` `amazon-web-services` `amazon-sqs` `aws-cli`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am attempting to utilize the AWS CLI along with a `for` loop in bash to iteratively purge multiple SQS message queues.  The bash script works almost as intended, the problem I am having is with the return value each time the AWS CLI sends a request.  When the request is successful, it returns an empty value and opens up an interactive pager in the command line.  I then have to manually type `q` to exit the interactive screen and allow the `for` loop to continue to the next iteration.  This becomes very tedious and time consuming when attempting to purge a large number of queues.
Is there a way to configure AWS CLI to disable this interactive pager from popping up for every return value?  Or a way to pipe the return values into a separate file instead of being displayed?
I have played around with configuring different return value types (text, yaml, JSON) but haven't had any luck.  Also the `--no-pagination` parameter doesn't change the behavior.
Here's an example of the bash script I'm trying to run:
```
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can disable the interactive pager by setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to an empty string. This will cause the AWS CLI to output the results directly to the console instead of opening the interactive pager.

You can set the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable in your bash script before running the `aws` command, like this:

```
export AWS_PAGER=""
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```

This should prevent the interactive pager from popping up and allow your `for` loop to continue to the next iteration without any manual intervention.

Alternatively, you can redirect the output of the `aws` command to a file using the `>` operator. This will save the output to a file instead of displaying it on the console. Here's an example:

```
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo > /dev/null; 
done
```

In this example, the `> /dev/null` redirects the output to the null device, which discards it. This will prevent the output from being displayed on the console and allow your `for` loop to continue to the next iteration without any manual intervention.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can disable the interactive pager in the AWS CLI by setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to an empty string. This will cause the output to be displayed directly in the terminal instead of opening an interactive pager.

You can set the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable in your bash script before running the `aws` command, like this:

```
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  export AWS_PAGER=""
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```

This should prevent the interactive pager from opening and allow your `for` loop to continue to the next iteration automatically.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can disable the interactive pager by setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to an empty string. This will prevent the AWS CLI from opening the interactive pager and instead display the output directly in the terminal.

You can set the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable in your bash script before running the `aws` command like this:

```
AWS_PAGER="" aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo;
```

This will disable the interactive pager and allow the `for` loop to continue to the next iteration without any manual intervention.

Alternatively, you can redirect the output of the `aws` command to a file using the `>` operator like this:

```
aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo > output.txt;
```

This will redirect the output of the `aws` command to a file called `output.txt` instead of displaying it in the terminal. You can then review the output later if needed.

--------
