
# Post \#60566336 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60566336/)

## How does one output bold text in powershell?

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 25609 (258/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-657

Created at 2020-03-06 14:41:22

Tags: `powershell` `windows-scripting` `write-host`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I got a  script that do some automatic procedures, I use a "Write-Host" at the end of each one of them to tell the technical user that step is finished, but I realize is kind of hard to read and keep track so, ¿Is there a way to output a bold text?

Thank you in advance.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can output bold text in PowerShell by using the escape sequence for bold text. Here's an example:

```
Write-Host "This is normal text. This is $(tput bold)bold$(tput sgr0) text."
```

In this example, `$(tput bold)` is the escape sequence for bold text, and `$(tput sgr0)` resets the text formatting back to normal. You can replace "bold" with any text that you want to output in bold.

Note that this may not work in all PowerShell environments, as it relies on the `tput` command being available. If it doesn't work for you, you may need to look for an alternative method of outputting bold text.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can output bold text in PowerShell by using escape sequences. Here's an example:

```
Write-Host "This is a normal text."
Write-Host "`e[1mThis is a bold text.`e[0m"
```

In the second line, we use the escape sequence "`e[1m" before the text to make it bold, and "`e[0m" after the text to reset the formatting back to normal. 

Note that the escape sequence "`e" represents the ASCII escape character (decimal value 27), which can also be written as "\e" or [char]27.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can output bold text in PowerShell by using the escape sequence for bold text. Here's an example:

```
Write-Host "This is normal text. This is " -NoNewline
Write-Host "bold text" -ForegroundColor Yellow -NoNewline
Write-Host " and this is normal text again."
```

In this example, the `-NoNewline` parameter is used to prevent each `Write-Host` command from creating a new line. The `-ForegroundColor` parameter is used to set the color of the bold text to yellow. 

You can also use the escape sequence directly in the string:

```
Write-Host "This is normal text. This is \e[1mbold text\e[0m and this is normal text again."
```

In this example, `\e[1m` is the escape sequence for bold text and `\e[0m` resets the text back to normal.

--------
