
# Post \#53839253 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53839253/)

## How can I convert an array into a comma separated string?

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 47045 (171/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-665

Created at 2018-12-18 18:42:16

Tags: `arrays` `bash` `shell`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an array and I am printing it like this:

```
echo "${data[*]}"
```




```
/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_1.xml 
/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_2.xml
```


I want to store the above output as a comma separated value. How can I achieve this in Bash?

The data array is dynamic, it may have any number of values.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `IFS` (Internal Field Separator) variable to set the delimiter to a comma and then use the `echo` command to print the array with the delimiter. Here's an example:

```
IFS=','; echo "${data[*]}"
```

This will print the array with each element separated by a comma. If you want to store the output in a variable, you can use command substitution like this:

```
csv=$(IFS=','; echo "${data[*]}")
```

This will store the comma-separated values in the `csv` variable.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `IFS` (Internal Field Separator) variable to set the delimiter to a comma and then use the `echo` command to print the array elements separated by a comma. Here's an example:

```
IFS=','; echo "${data[*]}"
```

This will set the delimiter to a comma and then print the array elements separated by a comma. The output will be:

```
/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_1.xml,/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_2.xml
```

Note that the `IFS` variable is set only for the `echo` command and will not affect the rest of your script.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `IFS` (Internal Field Separator) variable to set the delimiter to a comma and then use the `echo` command to print the array elements separated by the comma. Here's an example:

```
IFS=','; echo "${data[*]}"
```

This will output the array elements separated by a comma:

```
/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_1.xml,/QE-CI-RUN-71/workspace/QE-AU/57/testng-results_2.xml
```

Note that the `IFS` variable is set to a comma before the `echo` command, and then it is reset to its default value after the command.

--------
