
# Post \#72097924 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72097924/)

## How to list file and folder names in powershell?

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 1065 (655/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-669

Created at 2022-05-03 10:14:31

Tags: `powershell` `command-line` `file-listing`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to write all files and folders' names into a `.gitignore` file like the below:
```
Folder1
Folder2
File1.bar
File2.foo
```

and so on.
The writing part can be achieved with the `Out-File` command, but I'm stuck in printing those names like the format above.
I'm aware of the command `Get-ChildItem` but it prints out a bunch of metadata like dates and icons too which are useless for the matter. btw, I'm looking for a single-line , not a script.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `Get-ChildItem` command with the `-Name` parameter to only retrieve the names of the files and folders. Then you can use the `Out-File` command to write the names to a `.gitignore` file. Here's an example:

```
Get-ChildItem -Name | Out-File .gitignore
```

This will write the names of all files and folders in the current directory to a `.gitignore` file. If you want to exclude certain files or folders, you can use the `-Exclude` parameter with `Get-ChildItem`. For example:

```
Get-ChildItem -Name -Exclude *.log,Folder1 | Out-File .gitignore
```

This will exclude all files with the `.log` extension and the `Folder1` folder from the list of names written to the `.gitignore` file.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `Get-ChildItem` command with the `-Name` parameter to only get the names of the files and folders, and then use the `Out-File` command to write them to a `.gitignore` file. Here's an example:

```
Get-ChildItem -Name | Out-File -Encoding utf8 .gitignore
```

This will write the names of all files and folders in the current directory to a `.gitignore` file in UTF-8 encoding. If you want to exclude certain files or folders, you can use the `-Exclude` parameter with a wildcard pattern. For example, to exclude all `.txt` files and a folder named `Folder3`, you can use:

```
Get-ChildItem -Name -Exclude *.txt,Folder3 | Out-File -Encoding utf8 .gitignore
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `Get-ChildItem` command with the `-Name` parameter to only retrieve the names of the files and folders. Then, you can pipe the output to the `Out-File` command to write it to a file. Here's an example:

```
Get-ChildItem -Name | Out-File .gitignore
```

This will write all the file and folder names in the current directory to a file named `.gitignore`. If you want to exclude certain files or folders, you can use the `-Exclude` parameter with `Get-ChildItem`. For example:

```
Get-ChildItem -Name -Exclude *.txt,Folder1 | Out-File .gitignore
```

This will exclude all files with the `.txt` extension and the folder named `Folder1` from the output. You can customize the `-Exclude` parameter to fit your needs.

--------
