
# Post \#59760118 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59760118/)

## How to open 'This PC' using CMD or Powershell?

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 14958 (358/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-689

Created at 2020-01-15 21:55:13

Tags: `windows` `powershell` `cmd` `directory`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I need a way of opening the explorer at This PC , in the same way as opening in a windows explorer Gui, but I am incapable of this as using Explorer.exe in CMD opens quick access.

I tried opening it with a shortcut and that too failed. 

Does anyone know of a way to do this?

Cheers


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can open the explorer at This PC by using the following command in the Command Prompt:

```
explorer.exe /e,::{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}
```

This command will open the explorer at This PC instead of Quick Access. You can also create a shortcut with this command to open it quickly. 

To create a shortcut, right-click on your desktop and select "New" > "Shortcut". In the "Type the location of the item" field, enter the above command and click "Next". Give the shortcut a name and click "Finish". Now you can double-click on the shortcut to open the explorer at This PC.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, there is a way to open the explorer at This PC using the command prompt. You can use the following command:

```
explorer /e,::{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}
```

This command will open the explorer window at This PC. You can also create a shortcut with this command and place it on your desktop or taskbar for easy access.

To create a shortcut, follow these steps:

1. Right-click on your desktop and select "New" > "Shortcut".
2. In the "Type the location of the item" field, enter the above command.
3. Click "Next" and give your shortcut a name.
4. Click "Finish" to create the shortcut.

You can now double-click on the shortcut to open the explorer window at This PC.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can use the following command in the command prompt to open the explorer at This PC:

```
explorer.exe /e,::{20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}
```

This command will open the explorer at This PC, which is represented by the GUID {20D04FE0-3AEA-1069-A2D8-08002B30309D}.

You can also create a shortcut with this command and place it on your desktop or taskbar for easy access. To create a shortcut, right-click on your desktop or in a folder, select New > Shortcut, and enter the above command as the location of the item.

--------
