
# Post \#71038117 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71038117/)

## Why doesn't nested parameter expansion work correctly in GitLab CI/CD?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 828 (674/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-655

Created at 2022-02-08 17:22:34

Tags: `bash` `gitlab` `gitlab-ci` `gitlab-ci.yml`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Using a `bash` runner, is there any reason why the following variable expansion shouldn't work?
```
variables:
  GIT_BRANCH: "${CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME:-${CI_COMMIT_BRANCH:-$CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH}}"

job1:
  script:
    - echo $GIT_BRANCH
```

The job outputs `}`.
I'm using GitLab Enterprise Edition 14.1.8-ee.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The variable expansion you're using should work correctly in GitLab CI/CD. However, the issue you're experiencing might be due to a couple of reasons:

1. The variables `CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME`, `CI_COMMIT_BRANCH`, and `CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH` might not be defined in your GitLab CI/CD environment. You should ensure that these variables are correctly defined and accessible in your pipeline.

2. There might be an issue with the GitLab version you're using. You're using GitLab Enterprise Edition 14.1.8-ee. There might be a bug in this version that's causing the issue. You could try updating to the latest version of GitLab and see if the issue persists.

3. The issue might be with the `bash` runner you're using. You could try using a different runner and see if the issue persists.

If none of these solutions work, you should consider reaching out to GitLab support for further assistance.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The syntax you're using seems correct for GitLab CI/CD pipelines. However, the issue you're experiencing might be due to a couple of reasons:

1. The variables `CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME`, `CI_COMMIT_BRANCH`, and `CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH` might not be defined in your pipeline. Make sure these variables are defined and accessible in the scope of your job.

2. There might be an issue with your GitLab version. There have been some bugs related to variable expansion in the past, so it might be worth checking if your version of GitLab has any known issues related to this.

3. It's also possible that there's an issue with the runner you're using. If you're using an older version of GitLab Runner, it might not support this kind of variable expansion. Try updating your runner to the latest version.

If none of these solutions work, you might want to consider using a script to set the `GIT_BRANCH` variable instead. Here's an example:

```yaml
job1:
  script:
    - >
      if [ -n "$CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME" ]; then
        GIT_BRANCH=$CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME
      elif [ -n "$CI_COMMIT_BRANCH" ]; then
        GIT_BRANCH=$CI_COMMIT_BRANCH
      else
        GIT_BRANCH=$CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH
      fi
    - echo $GIT_BRANCH
```

This script does essentially the same thing as your variable expansion, but it might work better if there's an issue with the runner or GitLab version you're using.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The syntax you've used for variable expansion in the `GIT_BRANCH` variable is correct. However, the issue you're experiencing might be due to the fact that the variables `CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME`, `CI_COMMIT_BRANCH`, and `CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH` are not defined or not available in the context where you're trying to use them.

Here are a few things you can check:

1. Ensure that the variables are defined in the environment where your script is running. You can check this by echoing the variables in your script:

```bash
job1:
  script:
    - echo $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME
    - echo $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH
    - echo $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH
```

2. If you're using these variables in a Merge Request pipeline, make sure that the pipeline is running in the context of a Merge Request. The `CI_MERGE_REQUEST_SOURCE_BRANCH_NAME` variable is only available in Merge Request pipelines.

3. If you're using these variables in a regular pipeline, ensure that the pipeline is running in the context of a branch. The `CI_COMMIT_BRANCH` variable is only available in branch pipelines.

4. The `CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH` variable is available in all pipelines and represents the default branch of your project.

If none of these variables are available in your pipeline, the `GIT_BRANCH` variable will not be set, and trying to echo it will result in an empty output.

--------
