
# Post \#64670494 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64670494/)

## GitHub Action: Pass Environment Variable to into Action using PowerShell

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 6845 (487/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-684

Created at 2020-11-03 20:52:59

Tags: `powershell` `environment-variables` `github-actions`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using trying to build a workflow that will run in PowerShell.  I am setting an environment for my branch name to use in a step for checkout of a different repository.
```
run: |
  $branchName = $Env:GITHUB_REF -replace "refs/heads/", ""
  echo "CURRENT_BRANCH=${branchName}" | Out-File -FilePath $Env:GITHUB_ENV -Encoding utf8 -Append
```

In a later step, I'm trying to pass in the variable:
```
- name: Checkout repo  
  uses: actions/checkout@v2
  with:
    repository: 'MyOrg/MyRepo'
    ref: ${env:CURRENT_BRANCH}
```

I've tried different formats involving curly brackets, but I keep getting output from the build that shows that exact text as the path.  I'm not sure sure how to get it to evaluate.
When I do  `${{ env:CURRENT_BRANCH }}` I received the following error:
> The workflow is not valid.
.github/workflows/publish.yml (Line: 54, Col: 14):
Unexpected symbol: 'env:CURRENT_BRANCH'. Located at position 1
within expression: env:CURRENT_BRANCH


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To reference an environment variable in a GitHub Actions workflow, you can use the `${{ env.VARIABLE_NAME }}` syntax. In your case, you can try using `${{ env.CURRENT_BRANCH }}` instead of `${env:CURRENT_BRANCH}` in your checkout step.

Here's an updated version of your workflow:

```
run: |
  $branchName = $Env:GITHUB_REF -replace "refs/heads/", ""
  echo "CURRENT_BRANCH=${branchName}" | Out-File -FilePath $Env:GITHUB_ENV -Encoding utf8 -Append

- name: Checkout repo  
  uses: actions/checkout@v2
  with:
    repository: 'MyOrg/MyRepo'
    ref: ${{ env.CURRENT_BRANCH }}
```

This should evaluate the `CURRENT_BRANCH` environment variable and use its value as the `ref` parameter for the `actions/checkout` action.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To reference an environment variable in a GitHub Actions workflow, you can use the `${{ env.VARIABLE_NAME }}` syntax. In your case, you can try using `${{ env.CURRENT_BRANCH }}` in the `ref` field of the `actions/checkout` step.

Here's an updated version of your workflow with the correct syntax:

```
run: |
  $branchName = $Env:GITHUB_REF -replace "refs/heads/", ""
  echo "CURRENT_BRANCH=${branchName}" | Out-File -FilePath $Env:GITHUB_ENV -Encoding utf8 -Append

- name: Checkout repo  
  uses: actions/checkout@v2
  with:
    repository: 'MyOrg/MyRepo'
    ref: ${{ env.CURRENT_BRANCH }}
```

This should evaluate the `CURRENT_BRANCH` environment variable and use its value as the `ref` parameter for the `actions/checkout` step.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To reference an environment variable in a GitHub Actions workflow, you can use the `${{ env.VARIABLE_NAME }}` syntax. In your case, you can try the following:

```
- name: Checkout repo  
  uses: actions/checkout@v2
  with:
    repository: 'MyOrg/MyRepo'
    ref: ${{ env.CURRENT_BRANCH }}
```

This should evaluate the `CURRENT_BRANCH` environment variable and use its value as the `ref` parameter for the `actions/checkout` action.

--------
