
# Post \#60346608 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60346608/)

## aws cli output automatically being sent to vi

**Vote**: 47 (131/702) **Views**: 13046 (381/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-678

Created at 2020-02-21 21:44:38

Tags: `linux` `bash` `zsh` `aws-cli` `oh-my-zsh`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am currently learning the AWS CLI (v2) and have installed it on Ubuntu 18.04. I am running zsh with oh-my-zsh installed. I am trying to get aws command output to be reported back to the terminal as a JSON string (or even as text), but the output is  redirected to vi.

My AWS account is brand new - no EC2 instances. When I run the following command:

```
aws ec2 describe-instances
```


It sends the expected output value (e.g. { "Reservations": [] }), but directly to vi instead of outputting a JSON string to the terminal requiring closing vi afterwards. This occurs regardless of output format (json, text, table) or what shell I use (bash, zsh). 

I am not sure if this is a AWS CLI configuration issue/change or a shell/Linux configuration issue/change

- - 

Thank you for any/all suggestions.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It sounds like the AWS CLI is defaulting to using the `vi` editor as the default pager for displaying output. You can change the pager to something else, like `less`, by setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable.

Try running the following command:

```
export AWS_PAGER="less"
```

This will set the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to use `less` instead of `vi` as the default pager for displaying output.

You can also add this line to your shell configuration file (e.g. `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`) to make the change persistent across shell sessions.

After setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable, try running the `aws ec2 describe-instances` command again and see if the output is displayed correctly in the terminal.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It sounds like the output of the `aws ec2 describe-instances` command is being piped to the `vi` editor instead of being displayed in the terminal. This can happen if the `EDITOR` environment variable is set to `vi`.

To fix this, you can try setting the `PAGER` environment variable to an empty string before running the `aws` command. This will prevent the output from being piped to any pager program, including `vi`. You can do this by running the following command:

```
export PAGER=
```

Alternatively, you can try setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to an empty string before running the `aws` command. This will specifically prevent the `aws` command from using a pager program to display the output. You can do this by running the following command:

```
export AWS_PAGER=
```

Once you have set either of these environment variables, try running the `aws ec2 describe-instances` command again and see if the output is displayed in the terminal as expected.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It sounds like the output of the `aws` command is being piped to the `vi` editor instead of being displayed in the terminal. This can happen if the `EDITOR` environment variable is set to `vi` or if the `aws` command is aliased to `vi` in your shell configuration.

To check if `EDITOR` is set to `vi`, you can run the following command in your terminal:

```
echo $EDITOR
```

If it returns `vi`, you can unset it by running:

```
unset EDITOR
```

If that doesn't work, you can try running the `aws` command with the `-T` option to disable the use of the pager:

```
aws ec2 describe-instances --output json -T
```

This should output the JSON string directly to the terminal.

If you want to make this change permanent, you can add the following line to your shell configuration file (e.g. `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`):

```
export AWS_PAGER=""
```

This will disable the use of the pager for all `aws` commands.

--------
