
# Post \#61125013 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61125013/)

## How can I minify JSON in a shell script?

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 13614 (377/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-662

Created at 2020-04-09 15:46:54

Tags: `json` `unix` `command-line` `minify`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash` `json`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've been looking for a way to uglify some JSON while in my bash console. This help using it afterward in another command (for example, to pass json inline to `httpie`)

Giving:

```
{
    "foo": "lorem",
    "bar": "ipsum"
}
```


I want to obtain:

```
{"foo":"lorem","bar":"ipsum"}
```


[it's pretty-print counterpart](https://stackoverflow.com/q/352098/6320039)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `jq` command-line tool to minify JSON in a bash console. `jq` is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor. If it's not installed, you can install it using a package manager like `apt` for Ubuntu, `brew` for MacOS, etc.

Here is how you can use `jq` to minify your JSON:

```bash
echo '{
    "foo": "lorem",
    "bar": "ipsum"
}' | jq -c .
```

The `-c` option in `jq` stands for "compact output". It ensures that the output JSON is compact (i.e., no unnecessary whitespace).

This will output:

```bash
{"foo":"lorem","bar":"ipsum"}
```

You can then use this output as an input to another command. For example:

```bash
http POST https://example.com/api/resource data=$(echo '{
    "foo": "lorem",
    "bar": "ipsum"
}' | jq -c .)
```

This will send a POST request to `https://example.com/api/resource` with the minified JSON as the data.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `jq` command-line tool to minify JSON in bash. `jq` is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor. If it's not already installed, you can install it with the package manager for your system. For example, on Ubuntu you would use `sudo apt-get install jq`.

Here's how you can use `jq` to minify your JSON:

```bash
echo '{
    "foo": "lorem",
    "bar": "ipsum"
}' | jq -c .
```

The `-c` option stands for "compact output". It will remove all the unnecessary white space.

This will output:

```bash
{"foo":"lorem","bar":"ipsum"}
```

You can then use this output as input to another command. For example:

```bash
echo '{
    "foo": "lorem",
    "bar": "ipsum"
}' | jq -c . | http POST httpbin.org/post
```

This will send a POST request to httpbin.org with your minified JSON as the body.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use `jq` to uglify JSON in bash. `jq` is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor. If it's not installed, you can install it using package managers like `apt`, `brew`, `yum`, etc.

Here is how you can use it:

```bash
echo '{
    "foo": "lorem",
    "bar": "ipsum"
}' | jq -c .
```

The `-c` option in `jq` stands for "compact output". It will remove all the unnecessary whitespaces.

This will output:

```bash
{"foo":"lorem","bar":"ipsum"}
```

You can then use this output in another command as you wish.

--------
