
# Post \#60346608 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60346608/)

## aws cli output automatically being sent to vi

**Vote**: 47 (131/702) **Views**: 13046 (381/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-678

Created at 2020-02-21 21:44:38

Tags: `linux` `bash` `zsh` `aws-cli` `oh-my-zsh`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am currently learning the AWS CLI (v2) and have installed it on Ubuntu 18.04. I am running zsh with oh-my-zsh installed. I am trying to get aws command output to be reported back to the terminal as a JSON string (or even as text), but the output is  redirected to vi.

My AWS account is brand new - no EC2 instances. When I run the following command:

```
aws ec2 describe-instances
```


It sends the expected output value (e.g. { "Reservations": [] }), but directly to vi instead of outputting a JSON string to the terminal requiring closing vi afterwards. This occurs regardless of output format (json, text, table) or what shell I use (bash, zsh). 

I am not sure if this is a AWS CLI configuration issue/change or a shell/Linux configuration issue/change

- - 

Thank you for any/all suggestions.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

It seems like your AWS CLI is configured to use `vi` as the default pager. The AWS CLI uses a pager to manage the output of its commands. By default, it uses the pager defined in your environment, or `less` if no pager is defined.

You can change the default pager by setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable. If you want to disable the pager and print the output directly to the terminal, you can set `AWS_PAGER` to an empty string.

Here's how you can do it:

1. Open your shell's configuration file. If you're using zsh, this will be `~/.zshrc`. If you're using bash, it will be `~/.bashrc`.

2. Add the following line to the file:

    ```bash
    export AWS_PAGER=""
    ```

3. Save the file and exit.

4. Reload your shell's configuration by running `source ~/.zshrc` (or `source ~/.bashrc` if you're using bash).

Now, when you run `aws ec2 describe-instances`, the output should be printed directly to the terminal.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like your AWS CLI is configured to use `vi` as the default pager. The AWS CLI uses a pager to manage the output of its commands. By default, it uses the pager defined in the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable. If this variable is not set, it will use the pager defined in the `PAGER` environment variable. If neither of these variables are set, it will use `less` as the default pager.

You can disable the pager by setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to an empty string. You can do this in the current terminal session by running:

```bash
export AWS_PAGER=""
```

If you want to disable the pager permanently, you can add the above line to your shell's profile script. If you're using `zsh`, you can add it to the `.zshrc` file:

```bash
echo 'export AWS_PAGER=""' >> ~/.zshrc
```

Then, source the `.zshrc` file to apply the changes:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

After doing this, the output of the `aws` command should be printed directly to the terminal.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems like your AWS CLI is configured to use `vi` as the default pager. The AWS CLI uses a pager to handle the output of its commands. By default, it uses the pager specified by the `PAGER` environment variable. If this variable is not set, it will use `less` as the default pager.

You can change the pager used by the AWS CLI by setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable. If you want to disable the pager and print the output directly to the terminal, you can set `AWS_PAGER` to an empty string.

Here's how you can do this:

1. Open your `.zshrc` file:

```bash
nano ~/.zshrc
```

2. Add the following line to the end of the file:

```bash
export AWS_PAGER=""
```

3. Save and close the file.

4. Apply the changes by running:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

Now, when you run your AWS CLI commands, the output should be printed directly to the terminal.

If you want to set this change only for the current terminal session, you can simply run `export AWS_PAGER=""` directly in the terminal.

--------
