
# Post \#62029637 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62029637/)

## Changing username, hostname, and path color in iterm2

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 7797 (470/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-683

Created at 2020-05-26 19:13:29

Tags: `macos` `terminal` `zsh` `iterm2`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How can I change the username, hostname, and path color in iTerm2? I'm using the built-in Solarized colorscheme.

In Ubuntu, the same built-in colorscheme is highlighted like:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/5cElM.png)

In iTerm2:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/z3JDB.png)

Current iTerm2 settings:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/9OtXN.png)

and
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/DJdF0.png)

I've been playing around the settings but can't get it to work. I've also gone through numerous links, but those also settings don't work.

I'm on macOS 10.15.4


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To change the username, hostname, and path color in iTerm2, you can follow these steps:

1. Open iTerm2 and go to Preferences > Profiles > Colors.
2. Select the Solarized Dark or Light preset, depending on which one you are using.
3. Scroll down to the ANSI Colors section and click on the color box next to "Bright Green" (or any other color you want to change).
4. In the color picker, select the color you want to use for the username, hostname, and path.
5. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for the other colors you want to change (e.g. Bright Blue for the path).
6. Click on the "Save" button to save your changes.

Note that the exact colors used for the username, hostname, and path may vary depending on your shell configuration. If you are using the default Bash shell, you can customize the prompt colors by editing your .bashrc file. Here's an example:

```
export PS1='\[\e[1;32m\]\u@\h:\[\e[1;34m\]\w\[\e[0m\]\$ '
```

This will set the username color to bright green (\e[1;32m), the hostname color to the default color (\h), and the path color to bright blue (\e[1;34m). You can customize these colors by changing the color codes.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To change the username, hostname, and path color in iTerm2, you can follow these steps:

1. Open iTerm2 and go to Preferences (or press `⌘ + ,`).
2. Select the Profiles tab and choose the profile you want to modify.
3. Go to the Colors tab and scroll down to the ANSI Colors section.
4. Click on the color box next to "Bright Black" and choose a color that you want to use for the username, hostname, and path.
5. Click on the color box next to "Bold" and choose a color that you want to use for the text that appears after the path.
6. Click on the color box next to "Background" and choose a color that you want to use for the background of the text.
7. Click on the color box next to "Foreground" and choose a color that you want to use for the foreground of the text.
8. Click on the "Save" button to save your changes.

If you're using the Solarized colorscheme, you can use the following colors:

- Username, hostname, and path: Base0
- Text after path: Base1
- Background: Base03
- Foreground: Base0

After making these changes, your iTerm2 window should look similar to the Ubuntu screenshot you provided.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To change the username, hostname, and path color in iTerm2, you can follow these steps:

1. Open iTerm2 and go to Preferences by pressing `⌘ + ,` or by clicking on iTerm2 > Preferences from the menu bar.

2. Go to the Profiles tab and select the profile you want to modify.

3. Click on the Colors tab and scroll down to the ANSI Colors section.

4. Click on the color box next to ANSI Black and select a color that you want to use for the username, hostname, and path.

5. Repeat step 4 for ANSI Bright Black, which is used for the bold version of the same text.

6. Click on the color box next to ANSI Green and select a color that you want to use for the text that follows the path.

7. Click on the color box next to ANSI Bright Green, which is used for the bold version of the same text.

8. Click on the Save button to save your changes.

After following these steps, your username, hostname, and path should be highlighted in the colors you selected.

--------
