
# Post \#50652071 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50652071/)

## Flutter command not found

**Vote**: 188 (21/702) **Views**: 436744 (10/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-691

Created at 2018-06-01 23:22:27

Tags: `android-studio` `flutter` `dart` `command-line` `terminal`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash` `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Apparently, none of the Flutter commands are working in the terminal of Android Studio which I believe I am trying to run it at the root of my project.
Output:
```
bash: flutter: command not found
```



----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 538

Created at 2018-06-02 04:52:27

------------

You need to correctly set up your Flutter path.
From [macOS install - Update your path](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install/macos#update-your-path):

1. Determine the directory where you placed the Flutter SDK. You will need this in Step 3.
2. Open (or create) $HOME/.bash_profile. You can do that by using terminal text editor by going in terminal and typing nano ~/.bash_profile macOS v10.15 (Catalina) uses the Z shell by default, so edit $file HOME/.zshrc. If you are using a different shell, the file path and filename will be different on your machine.
3. Add the following line and change [PATH_TO_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY] to be the path where you cloned Flutter’s Git repository is:  export PATH=[PATH_TO_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]/flutter/bin:$PATH
 For example:  export PATH=~/Documents/flutter/bin:$PATH
4. Press Ctrl + X and when it asks you to save the file, choose Yes
5. Run source $HOME/.bash_profile to refresh the current window or restart the terminal
6. Verify that the flutter/bin directory is now in your PATH by running:  echo $PATH
 Notice that [PATH_TO_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY] is where you installed Flutter SDK, not the location of your app


Instead of [nano](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_nano), you can use any text editor to edit file `~/.bash_profile`.
For :

1. Open Terminal
2. Run: nano ~/.zshrc
3. Add: export PATH=[PATH_TO_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]/flutter/bin:$PATH
4. Run: source ~/.zshrc
5. restart terminal
6. Run: flutter doctor -v


For example : if flutter in your machine has been installed under [your_username]/Developer/flutter
```
export PATH=Developer/flutter/bin:$PATH
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 401

Created at 2018-12-23 04:42:17

------------

I tried out all the methods in previous answers, but all of them lasted only while the terminal was open. So I went ahead and directly added it to the path file permanently.
```
sudo nano /etc/paths
```

Add this to the file:
```
/Users/yourUserName/Development/flutter/bin
```

Save the file by pressing  + ,  and then . Close the terminal and reopen it again. Tada!


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 87

Created at 2019-06-09 07:07:09

------------

If you are using [zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/), you need to follow the steps below on Mac.
- [the official site](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install/macos)- `$HOME`- `.zshrc`- `nano ~/.zshrc`[iTerm2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ITerm2)- `PATH=$HOME/flutter/bin:$PATH`- `~/.zshrc`- - 


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 65

Created at 2018-09-29 11:37:59

------------

Do the following steps:

1. Download the Flutter SDK Flutter SDK Archive
2. Extract it where do you want (for example /home/development/flutter)
3. Set your PATH. Edit your file with the command gedit ~/.profile. You need to add this line: export PATH=[location_where_you_extracted_flutter]/flutter/bin:$PATH
 I showed you above where I've extracted mine, so my export will look like this: export PATH=/home/myUser/development/flutter/bin:$PATH
4. Save the file and close it.
5. Run source ~/.profile to load the changes
6. If you now run flutter doctor, it should work!




------------
    
    
## Answer \#4

 Vote: 29

Created at 2019-12-27 17:52:48

------------


First find the location of your Flutter SDK
Flutter SDK File: Write the below command on your terminal to download the Flutter SDK
```
git clone https://github.com/flutter/flutter.git
```

For example: the SDK executable file name is `flutter` and it is in folder 
Close and open your terminal again.
And enter the following commands in your terminal
```
cd Downloads # Go to Downloads

cd flutter   # Go to folder 'flutter'

pwd          # /Users/[USERNAME]/downloads/flutter/

whoami       # Your [USERNAME]

export PATH="/Users/[USERNAME]/downloads/flutter/bin":$PATH
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#5

 Vote: 23

Created at 2019-06-10 02:43:38

------------


### macOS v10.14 (Mojave); Wireshark Path problem


In your terminal, run:
```
touch $HOME/.bash_profile

vi $HOME/.bash_profile
```

Now use `I` to insert and paste the following:
```
export PATH="$PATH:$HOME:/PATH_TO_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY/flutter/bin"
```

Use  and type `:wq!` to save the file and exit.
Refresh:
```
source $HOME/.bash_profile
```

And verify it's OK by running:
```
echo $PATH
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#6

 Vote: 21

Created at 2020-12-07 16:06:08

------------

For zsh users:

1. Open terminal run touch $HOME/.zshrc
2. Run sudo nano ~/.zshrc
3. Type export PATH=$PATH:/Path to your extracted flutter/Flutter/bin
4. Press ctrl+x then press y
5. Press Enter
6. Close the terminal and open a new terminal and run flutter doctor




------------
    
    
## Answer \#7

 Vote: 15

Created at 2019-03-01 04:29:33

------------

You must have the  file and define the  in the  file.

1. First of all, if you do not have or do not know file .bash_profile, please look my answer: How do I edit $PATH (.bash_profile) on OSX?
2. You should add the below line (.../flutter_SDK_path/flutter/bin) in your .bash_profile:  export PATH=$PATH:/home/username/Documents/flutter_SDK_path/flutter/bin


After these steps, you can write Flutter code such as, `flutter doctor`, `flutter build ios`, `flutter clean`, etc. in the terminal of a MacBook.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#8

 Vote: 15

Created at 2019-03-18 16:09:53

------------

Do this to add the Flutter executable permanently to your path (in Ubuntu):

1. cd $HOME
2. gedit .bashrc
3. Append the line: export PATH="$PATH:[location_where_you_extracted_flutter]/flutter/bin"
 in the text file and save it.
4. source $HOME/.bashrc
5. Open new terminal and run the flutter doctor command




------------
    
    
## Answer \#9

 Vote: 11

Created at 2020-05-31 13:58:25

------------

On [macOS v10.15](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacOS_Catalina) (Catalina), the issue is with the Path environment variable.

1. Open Terminal and check the shell (command: echo $SHELL),


If output is `/bin/bash`, we need to convert to [Z shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z_shell) (`Zsh`). Z shell is only the default shell on newly created user accounts, so any existing accounts you have on an upgraded Mac will still use Bash by default unless you change it. Simply run the `chsh -s` (change shell) command in a Terminal window.
(command: `chsh -s /bin/zsh`)
Enter your password when prompted. After you close the terminal window and reopen it, you’ll be using Z shell.

1. Update your Path


2.1. Open the zshrc file (command: `vim ~/.zshrc`)
2.2. Press 'I' to insert the path as (`export PATH=~/Dev/flutter/bin:$PATH`). Here `~/Dev/` is the folder where Flutter is installed
2.3. Hit  key and then `:wq` to save and exit the file

1. Done! try (command: flutter doctor)




------------
    
    
## Answer \#10

 Vote: 10

Created at 2019-12-01 05:42:59

------------

Previously I was giving my whole path like this:
```
export PATH=Users/Tekion/Downloads/flutter/bin:$PATH
```

It started working after I changed my whole path to
```
export PATH=$HOME/Downloads/flutter/bin:$PATH
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#11

 Vote: 7

Created at 2019-03-15 11:17:23

------------

Add Path in this way in `.bashrc` of android sdk and tools with   flutter
```
export PATH=$PATH:/user/Android/Sdk/platform-tools:/user/Android/Sdk/build-tools/27.0.1:/user/Android/Sdk/tools:/user/Android/Sdk/tools/bin:/user/Documents/fluterdev/flutter/bin:$PATH
```

Then run this command
> `source ~/.profile`
Then run this command:

```
source ~/.profile
```


```
source ~/.bash_profile
```

Or:
```
open -a TextEdit ~/.bash_profile
```

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Rqifu.png)
Then you can user any of flutter command like to build fluter apk
> `flutter build apk`


------------
    
    
## Answer \#12

 Vote: 6

Created at 2019-06-09 06:08:12

------------

The Flutter SDK can be run on Windows as well as macOS.


1. First download the latest SDK from the Flutter download page.
2. Now to run flutter in the Windows console, you need to update your PATH environment variable.
3. From the Start search bar, type ‘env’ and select Edit environment variables for your account.
4. Under User variables, check if there is an entry called Path: If the entry does exist, append the full path to flutter\bin using ; as a separator from the existing values. If the entry does not exist, create a new user variable named Path with the full path to flutter\bin as its value.




1. First download the latest SDK from the Flutter download page
2. Extract the file in the desired location using following commands: cd ~/development unzip ~/Downloads/flutter_macos_v1.5.4-hotfix.2-stable.zip
3. Add the Flutter tool to your path: export PATH="$PATH:pwd/flutter/bin"


`flutter doctor`


------------
    
    
## Answer \#13

 Vote: 5

Created at 2019-06-11 08:17:43

------------

I followed the checked answer, but when I restart the terminal, the Flutter command is not recognized again. My in file  path is:
`export PATH=~/Users/aldo/Projects/Framework/flutter/bin:$PATH` with `~`
Then I edit it to:
`export PATH=/Users/aldo/Projects/Framework/flutter/bin:$PATH` without `~`
And re run `source $HOME/.bash_profile`: Now my Flutter command is recognized even if I restart the terminal.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#14

 Vote: 5

Created at 2020-12-31 16:32:00

------------

The Flutter installation issue in macOS (specific for [macOS v11](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacOS_Big_Sur) (Big Sur)).

1. Check which shell is your default shell that you have in the terminal.
2. To check the default shell, type command echo $SHELL.
3. For my specific issue I have Z shell (zsh) as my default shell.
4. So I change my Z shell as my default shell to Bash.
5. To change the default shell, enter the below command. chsh -s /bin/bash
6. Enter your password when you are prompted
7. Now I have the Bash shell as my default.
8. Then I just follow the standard process for the Flutter setup on Flutter’s official site.
9. And I have successfully configured Flutter in my macOS.


Extract the file in the desired location, for example:
```
cd ~/development
unzip ~/Downloads/flutter_macos_1.22.5-stable.zip
```

Add the flutter tool to your path:
```
export PATH="$PATH:`pwd`/flutter/bin"
```

This command sets your PATH variable for the current terminal window only. To permanently add Flutter to your path, see below.
—> Determine the directory where you placed the Flutter SDK.
—>     Open (or create) the rc file for your shell. Typing echo $SHELL in your Terminal tells you which shell you’re using. If you’re using Bash, edit $HOME/.bash_profile or $HOME/.bashrc. If you’re using Z shell, edit . If you’re using a different shell, the file path and filename will be different on your machine.
—> Add the following line and change [PATH_TO_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY] to be the path where you cloned Flutter’s Git repository
```
export PATH="$PATH:[PATH_TO_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]/flutter/bin"
```

—>     Run source `$HOME/.<rc file>` to refresh the current window, or open a new terminal window to automatically source the file.
—> Verify that the `flutter/bin` directory is now in your PATH by running:
```
echo $PATH
```

—> Verify that the `flutter` command is available by running
—> `which flutter`
—> Now run below command.
```
$ which flutter dart
       /path-to-flutter-sdk/bin/flutter
      /usr/local/bin/dart
```

—> And you're good to go.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#15

 Vote: 4

Created at 2018-09-24 07:19:36

------------

You can easily create a symbolic link as below,
```
sudo ln -s /opt/flutter/bin/flutter /usr/bin/flutter
```

I had moved the executable `flutter` into the `/opt/` folder after downloading, so replace it with the path you have for the directory the `flutter` executable is in.
The `flutter` command should work even after rebooting your machine.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#16

 Vote: 4

Created at 2019-02-09 20:57:17

------------

For Ubuntu 14.*:
There isn't any `.bash_profile` file, but it just the `.profile` file in folder `/home/mangesh`.
In my case, I am running this command to add the `flutter/bin` path,
```
export PATH="$PATH:/home/mangesh/Documents/flutter_data/flutter/bin/"
```

To verify the above change, just run,
```
echo $PATH
```

Following is my complete output,
```
$ pwd

/home/mangesh

$ export PATH="$PATH:/home/mangesh/Documents/flutter_data/flutter/bin/"

$ echo $PATH

/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/snap/bin:/home/mangesh/Documents/flutter_data/flutter/bin/
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#17

 Vote: 4

Created at 2019-04-14 05:55:04

------------

In my case, I put the line `export PATH=[PATH_TO_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]/flutter/bin:$PATH` in both file  and  (I put it on the last line).
After that, run `source .bash_profile` and `source .bashrc`. Now it's working (even if you use it in a new terminal window)!


------------
    
    
## Answer \#18

 Vote: 4

Created at 2020-08-04 09:03:03

------------

Just revert to `chsh -s /bin/bash` from `chsh -s /bin/zsh`,
Run one command
```
chsh -s /bin/bash
```

You're facing this problem just because you have changed the shell from [Bash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bash_%28Unix_shell%29) to [Z shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z_shell) in macOS. If you run this command again it will change the path again.
So just run one command and the problem is solved.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#19

 Vote: 3

Created at 2019-01-18 16:17:06

------------

On a Mac I followed the [steps of the user Tree](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50652071/flutter-command-not-found/50653621#50653621), but I still received the answer "flutter: command not found".
I then went to the folder `flutter/bin` and inside this folder  + click on the `flutter` executable and in the popup I clicked open. After that the Mac already recognized this as an exception and the Flutter commands already work.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#20

 Vote: 3

Created at 2019-05-22 13:37:31

------------

On a Mac, there are two options to solve this issue.

Download the Flutter SDK and extract in any location and then you have to add the below line in  file (hidden folder as default).
```
export PATH="$PATH:[where the Flutter SDK is downloaded and extracted]/flutter/bin"
```

For example:
```
export PATH="$PATH:~/development/tools/flutter/bin"
```


Step 1: Go to the path where Flutter SDK downloaded and extracted (for example: `cd ~/Development/tools/`)
Step 2: Enter this command
```
export PATH='pwd'/flutter/bin:$PATH
```

That's it. Type "flutter doctor" to check if this issue gets resolved.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#21

 Vote: 2

Created at 2018-12-31 16:05:47

------------

[Ubuntu 16.04](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu_version_history#Ubuntu_16.04_LTS_.28Xenial_Xerus.29) (Xenial Xerus):
I added the path correctly for Flutter, Java, Android Studio, and Android SDK in the , but when I run `flutter doctor`, the terminal returns:
```
flutter: command not found
```

Solution:
So, first I had to always run:
```
sudo su
```

And then:
```
source /home/your_name/.bashrc
```

Then run `flutter doctor`. It works fine.
So every time,  I want to run `flutter doctor`, I have to run these two commands above.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#22

 Vote: 2

Created at 2019-09-06 07:50:56

------------

The Flutter installation guide says you add this:
```
export PATH="$PATH:pwd/flutter/bin"
```

Visual Studio Code doesn't support `pwd` for some reason. The fix:
```
export PATH="$PATH:~/flutter/bin"
```



------------
    
    
## Answer \#23

 Vote: 2

Created at 2020-07-31 02:57:58

------------

First, download the Flutter here: [https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install/macos](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install/macos)
When you created the folder with Flutter SDK, open it in Terminal using the following command:
```
cd ~/development
```

If there is no development folder run this command first:
```
mkdir /development
```

After that, you need to run the unzip command. Make sure you specify the correct path to the downloaded Flutter archive file.
Run the command below:
```
unzip ~/Downloads/flutter_macos_1.17.1-stable.zip
```

Setting the Flutter tool path
In order to set up the Flutter tool path you should run this command:
```
export PATH="$PATH:`pwd`/flutter/bin"
```

Next, you need to know which shell you are using. For this run this command:
```
echo $SHELL
```

Depending on the shell run the following command: [Note, the command you will be using depends on the shell you have.]
```
sudo nano ~/.zshrc
```

or
```
sudo nano /.bashrc
```

After that in the new window, you need to add a path to the flutter tool.
Use the following command:
```
export PATH=$PATH:~/development/flutter/bin
```

The next thing you need to do is to check the Flutter dependencies.
For this, run the command:
```
flutter doctor
```

This operation will help you to identify if there are any dependencies you need to install.
After the results will be prepared click Agree and wait for the installation of the needed dependencies to complete the setup.
[enter image description here](https://i.stack.imgur.com/kq7OK.png)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#24

 Vote: 2

Created at 2020-09-16 11:24:52

------------

If you are facing this issue from a Windows 10 machine, this is how I solved it:
First of all, find your Flutter executable path, and then your bin folder under the Flutter path
E.g., "C:\flutter\bin"
Copy it, and press the windows button. Type: environment, and press "Edit the system environment variable"
Press the "Environment variable" button
Double click on the "Path" menu
Add a new path, using the bin address
E.g., ""C:\flutter\bin"
This should work.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#25

 Vote: 1

Created at 2020-05-28 20:53:08

------------

For those using a Z shell resource (.zshrc), navigate to your home directory and open .zprofile, copy and paste this: `export PATH=[PATH_TO_FLUTTER_DIRECTORY]/flutter/bin:$PATH`


------------
    
    