
# Post \#67824107 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67824107/)

## How to remove question mark and the rest from file names?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 1987 (607/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-696

Created at 2021-06-03 15:13:32

Tags: `bash` `sed` `find`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have grabbed a whole website template using . It created many asset files in different subdirectories where filenames contain question marks, `./fonts/fontawesome-webfont.woff?v=4.5.0` for example. I need to truncate `?` and the rest from these filenames. I tried this command:
```
find . -type f -name '*\?*' -exec mv "{}" "$(echo {} | sed 's/\?.*//g')" \;
```

But it does not work; nothing is replaced/removed, it shows this error:
```
mv: './fonts/fontawesome-webfont.woff?v=4.5.0' and './fonts/fontawesome-webfont.woff?v=4.5.0' are the same file
```

I have these type of filenames in different directories, so I tried `find` command. What am I missing here ?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The issue with your command is that the `sed` command is not properly escaping the `?` character. In regular expressions, `?` is a special character that means "match zero or one of the preceding character". To match a literal `?`, you need to escape it with a backslash.

Here's the corrected command:
```
find . -type f -name '*\?*' -exec sh -c 'mv "$1" "$(echo "$1" | sed "s/\?.*//g")"' _ {} \;
```

In this command, we're using `sh -c` to execute a shell command that performs the `mv` operation. The `sed` command now properly escapes the `?` character with a backslash.

Also note that we're using `_` as a placeholder for the `$0` argument, which is normally used to pass the name of the shell script being executed. Since we're not using a script file, we don't need to pass any value for `$0`.

This command should now properly rename all files with a `?` character in their name.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The issue with your command is that the `sed` command is not properly escaping the `?` character. In regular expressions, `?` is a special character that means "match zero or one of the preceding character". To match a literal `?` character, you need to escape it with a backslash.

Here's the corrected command:
```
find . -type f -name '*\?*' -exec sh -c 'mv "$1" "$(echo "$1" | sed "s/\?.*//g")"' sh {} \;
```

In this command, we're using `sh -c` to execute a shell command that renames the file. The `sed` command is now properly escaping the `?` character with a backslash.

Also note that we're passing `sh` as the first argument to `sh -c`, which sets `$0` to `sh` and makes `{}` the second argument (`$1`). This is necessary because some versions of `find` require a command argument after the `-exec` option.

I hope this helps!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The issue with your command is that the `sed` command is not properly escaping the `?` character. The `?` character has a special meaning in regular expressions, so you need to escape it with a backslash `\` to treat it as a literal character.

Here's the corrected command:
```
find . -type f -name '*\?*' -exec sh -c 'mv "$1" "$(echo "$1" | sed "s/\?.*//g")"' _ {} \;
```

In this command, we're using `sh -c` to execute the `mv` command with the correct filename. The `sed` command is now properly escaping the `?` character with a backslash.

Also, we're using `_` as a placeholder for the `$0` argument, which is normally used to pass the name of the shell script being executed. Since we're not using a shell script, we don't need to pass any arguments to it.

This command should now properly rename all files with a `?` character in their name.

--------
