
# Post \#65259300 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65259300/)

## Detect Apple Silicon from command line

**Vote**: 54 (118/702) **Views**: 23489 (271/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-671

Created at 2020-12-11 22:10:33

Tags: `bash` `shell` `macos-big-sur` `apple-silicon` `apple-m1`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How can I detect from a shell script that it is running on M1 Apple hardware?
I want to be able to run a command-line command so that I can write an `if`-statement whose body will only be executed when run on a mac with an M1 processor (and at least macOS Big Sur, naturally).


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `uname -m` command to get the machine hardware name. On M1 Macs, this command returns "arm64". Here is a simple shell script that checks if it's running on an M1 Mac:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

ARCH=$(uname -m)
if [[ "$ARCH" == "arm64" ]]; then
    echo "Running on M1"
else
    echo "Not running on M1"
fi
```

This script will print "Running on M1" if it's running on an M1 Mac, and "Not running on M1" otherwise.

Please note that this script will also return "Running on M1" if it's running on any other arm64 machine, not just M1 Macs. If you want to specifically check for M1 Macs, you could also check the operating system name with `uname -s`, which should return "Darwin" on macOS.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `uname -m` command to get the machine hardware name. On M1 Macs, this will return "arm64". Here's a simple shell script snippet that checks if the script is running on an M1 Mac:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

ARCH=$(uname -m)
if [[ "$ARCH" == "arm64" ]]; then
    echo "Running on M1"
else
    echo "Not running on M1"
fi
```

This script will print "Running on M1" if it is running on an M1 Mac, and "Not running on M1" otherwise. 

Please note that this script will also return "Running on M1" if run on any other arm64 machine, not just M1 Macs. If you want to specifically check for M1 Macs, you could also check the OS in your if-statement:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

ARCH=$(uname -m)
OS=$(uname -s)
if [[ "$ARCH" == "arm64" ]] && [[ "$OS" == "Darwin" ]]; then
    echo "Running on M1 Mac"
else
    echo "Not running on M1 Mac"
fi
```

This script will only print "Running on M1 Mac" if it is running on an M1 Mac.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `uname -m` command to get the machine hardware name. On M1 Macs, this command returns "arm64". Here's how you can use this in a shell script:

```bash
if [ "$(uname -m)" = "arm64" ]; then
    echo "Running on M1"
else
    echo "Not running on M1"
fi
```

This script will print "Running on M1" if it's running on an M1 Mac, and "Not running on M1" otherwise.

Please note that this will also return "arm64" on other arm64 machines, not just M1 Macs. If you need to specifically target M1 Macs, you can use the `sysctl -n machdep.cpu.brand_string` command, which gives more detailed information about the CPU:

```bash
if [ "$(uname -m)" = "arm64" ] && [ "$(sysctl -n machdep.cpu.brand_string)" = "Apple M1" ]; then
    echo "Running on M1"
else
    echo "Not running on M1"
fi
```

This script will only print "Running on M1" if it's running on an M1 Mac.

--------
