
# Post \#66523432 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66523432/)

## Run Power Automate flow from Windows Desktop via shortcut key or command line / shell

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 12597 (389/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-647

Created at 2021-03-08 01:55:36

Tags: `powershell` `power-automate`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like to run a Power Automate flow by pressing a keyboard shortcut or alternatively calling it up from CMD or Powershell script.
The flow would simply start execution once the keyboard shortcut is pressed or a Powershell script is run.
As it is now; I need to start Power Automate and then click on play in order to start a specific flow. I am trying to avoid all that.
The ultimate goal is to, once the system is up (Windows 10) and I'm logged it, I press the shortcut key and go do something else and by the time I get back the flow is done. The flow itself works flawlessly. Please note that I am not looking for a solution which would involve smartphones and flow buttons on said phones, purely  a Windows , PC, only solution or a way to a solution.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the Power Automate API to trigger the flow using a PowerShell script. Here are the steps to do so:

1. First, you need to get the HTTP POST URL for your flow. To do this, open your flow in Power Automate and click on the "..." menu in the top right corner. Then, select "Settings" and scroll down to the "HTTP POST URL" section. Copy the URL.

2. Open PowerShell and use the following command to trigger the flow:

```
Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -Uri <HTTP POST URL>
```

Replace `<HTTP POST URL>` with the URL you copied in step 1.

3. Save the PowerShell script with a .ps1 extension.

4. To run the script using a keyboard shortcut, you can create a shortcut to the script on your desktop. Then, right-click on the shortcut and select "Properties". In the "Shortcut" tab, click on the "Shortcut key" field and press the desired keyboard shortcut.

5. Alternatively, you can create a batch file that runs the PowerShell script and call the batch file from a keyboard shortcut. To do this, create a new text file and paste the following command:

```
powershell.exe -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File "<path to PowerShell script>"
```

Replace `<path to PowerShell script>` with the path to your PowerShell script. Save the file with a .bat extension.

6. Create a shortcut to the batch file on your desktop and set a keyboard shortcut for it as described in step 4.

Now, when you press the keyboard shortcut, the PowerShell script will run and trigger your Power Automate flow.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To run a Power Automate flow using a keyboard shortcut or a PowerShell script, you can use the following steps:

1. Create a new flow in Power Automate and add a trigger that suits your needs (e.g. a button trigger or a scheduled trigger).
2. Add the actions that you want to perform in your flow.
3. Save and publish your flow.
4. Open Windows PowerShell or Command Prompt and navigate to the folder where you want to save your PowerShell script.
5. Create a new PowerShell script file with the .ps1 extension (e.g. MyFlow.ps1).
6. In the PowerShell script file, add the following command to run your flow:

   ```powershell
   Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -Uri "https://prod-XX.westus.logic.azure.com:443/workflows/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX/triggers/manual/paths/invoke?api-version=2016-06-01&sp=%2Ftriggers%2Fmanual%2Frun&sv=1.0" -ContentType 'application/json' -Body '{}'
   ```

   Replace the URL in the command with the URL of your flow. You can find the URL by opening your flow in Power Automate and clicking on the "..." menu next to the flow name. Then select "Properties" and copy the "HTTP POST URL" value.

7. Save and close the PowerShell script file.
8. To run the PowerShell script, open PowerShell or Command Prompt and navigate to the folder where the script is saved.
9. Type the name of the script file (e.g. MyFlow.ps1) and press Enter.

Alternatively, you can create a shortcut on your desktop that runs the PowerShell script when you double-click on it. To do this, right-click on your desktop and select "New" > "Shortcut". In the "Location" field, enter the path to your PowerShell script file (e.g. "C:\Scripts\MyFlow.ps1"). Click "Next" and give your shortcut a name. Click "Finish" to create the shortcut. Now you can double-click on the shortcut to run your flow.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To run a Power Automate flow using a keyboard shortcut or a PowerShell script, you can use the following steps:

1. Create a new flow in Power Automate and save it.
2. Click on the "..." menu on the top right corner of the flow and select "Export".
3. Choose the "Power Automate CLI" option and download the .zip file.
4. Extract the .zip file to a folder on your computer.
5. Open a command prompt or PowerShell window and navigate to the folder where you extracted the .zip file.
6. Run the following command to install the Power Automate CLI:

```
npm install -g @microsoft/powerautomate-cli
```

7. Once the installation is complete, run the following command to log in to your Power Automate account:

```
paw login
```

8. Follow the prompts to log in to your account.
9. Run the following command to get a list of your flows:

```
paw list
```

10. Note the ID of the flow you want to run.
11. Create a new PowerShell script and add the following code:

```
$flowId = "your_flow_id_here"
paw run $flowId
```

12. Replace "your_flow_id_here" with the ID of the flow you noted in step 10.
13. Save the PowerShell script.
14. Create a shortcut to the PowerShell script on your desktop.
15. Right-click on the shortcut and select "Properties".
16. In the "Shortcut" tab, click on the "Shortcut key" field and press the keyboard shortcut you want to use to run the flow.
17. Click "Apply" and "OK" to save the changes.
18. Double-click on the shortcut or press the keyboard shortcut to run the flow.

This should allow you to run the Power Automate flow using a keyboard shortcut or a PowerShell script without having to manually start it in the Power Automate interface.

--------
