
# Post \#65994073 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65994073/)

## How to install cask for homebrew on mac

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 33116 (217/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-682

Created at 2021-02-01 14:03:04

Tags: `macos` `terminal` `homebrew` `glew` `homebrew-cask`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have set up git and homebrew, ran `brew reset-update`, `brew update` and `brew doctor` none of these give me errors but when I try to install glew using: `brew install glew` it gives me many errors:
```
fatal: the remote end hung up unexpectedly30.11 MiB | 4.92 MiB/s
fatal: early EOF
fatal: index-pack failed
Error: Failure while executing; `git clone https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-cask     /usr/local/Homebrew/Library/Taps/homebrew/homebrew-cask` exited with 128.
```

I figured it was because cask wasn't installed(even though from what I've read it's supposed to install with homebrew) so tried to install cask separately too but it also gives me the same error as the bottom one, I've also tried reinstalling git and homebrew, updating everything as well as restarting my mac. Any help would be appreciated.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there might be an issue with your internet connection or with the GitHub server. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check your internet connection: Make sure that you are connected to the internet and that your connection is stable. You can try running a speed test to see if your internet connection is slow or unstable.

2. Clear your Homebrew cache: Run the following command to clear your Homebrew cache:

   ```
   brew cleanup
   ```

3. Reset your Homebrew installation: Run the following command to reset your Homebrew installation:

   ```
   ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/uninstall)"
   ```

   Then, reinstall Homebrew by running:

   ```
   /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
   ```

4. Try installing GLEW using a different method: Instead of using Homebrew, you can try downloading and installing GLEW manually from the official website.

5. Contact GitHub support: If none of the above solutions work, you can try contacting GitHub support to see if there is an issue with their servers.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like there might be an issue with your internet connection or with the GitHub server. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check your internet connection: Make sure you have a stable internet connection and try running the command again.

2. Clear your Homebrew cache: Run `brew cleanup` to clear your Homebrew cache and then try installing glew again.

3. Manually install glew: Instead of using Homebrew, you can try manually installing glew by downloading the source code from the glew website and following the installation instructions.

4. Use a VPN: If you are still having issues, try using a VPN to connect to the internet and then try running the command again.

If none of these solutions work, you can try reaching out to the Homebrew community for further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like there might be an issue with the network connection or the GitHub server. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check your internet connection and make sure it's stable.
2. Try running `brew update-reset` again to reset and update Homebrew.
3. Try running `brew update` again to update Homebrew.
4. Try running `brew doctor` again to check for any issues with your Homebrew installation.
5. Try running `git clone https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-cask` to see if you can clone the repository manually. If this fails, it might indicate an issue with your network connection or GitHub server.
6. If none of the above steps work, you can try installing GLEW manually by downloading the source code from the GLEW website and building it yourself. Instructions for building GLEW can be found on their website.

If you continue to have issues, you can try reaching out to the Homebrew community for further assistance.

--------
