
# Post \#72097924 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72097924/)

## How to list file and folder names in powershell?

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 1065 (655/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-669

Created at 2022-05-03 10:14:31

Tags: `powershell` `command-line` `file-listing`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to write all files and folders' names into a `.gitignore` file like the below:
```
Folder1
Folder2
File1.bar
File2.foo
```

and so on.
The writing part can be achieved with the `Out-File` command, but I'm stuck in printing those names like the format above.
I'm aware of the command `Get-ChildItem` but it prints out a bunch of metadata like dates and icons too which are useless for the matter. btw, I'm looking for a single-line , not a script.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `Get-ChildItem` command with the `-Name` parameter to get only the names of the files and folders. Then, you can pipe the output to the `Out-File` command to write the names to the `.gitignore` file. Here is a one-liner that does this:

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Name | Out-File .gitignore
```

This command gets the names of all files and folders in the current directory and writes them to a `.gitignore` file in the same directory. If you want to include files and folders in subdirectories, you can use the `-Recurse` parameter:

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Name -Recurse | Out-File .gitignore
```

This command gets the names of all files and folders in the current directory and all its subdirectories and writes them to a `.gitignore` file in the same directory.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `Get-ChildItem` command with the `-Name` parameter to get only the names of the files and folders. Then, you can pipe the output to the `Out-File` command to write it to the `.gitignore` file. Here is a single-line command that does this:

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Name | Out-File .gitignore
```

This command will write the names of all files and folders in the current directory to the `.gitignore` file. If you want to include files and folders from subdirectories, you can use the `-Recurse` parameter:

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Name -Recurse | Out-File .gitignore
```

Please note that this will also include the path of the files and folders from subdirectories relative to the current directory.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `Get-ChildItem` command with the `-Name` parameter to get only the names of the files and folders. Then, you can pipe the output to the `Out-File` command to write it to the `.gitignore` file. Here is a single-line command that does this:

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Name | Out-File .gitignore
```

This command will write the names of all files and folders in the current directory to the `.gitignore` file. If you want to include files and folders from subdirectories, you can add the `-Recurse` parameter to the `Get-ChildItem` command:

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Name -Recurse | Out-File .gitignore
```

Please note that this will include the relative paths of the files and folders from subdirectories in the `.gitignore` file.

--------
