
# Post \#71459823 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71459823/)

## How to change the terminal title to currently running process?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 2389 (591/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-643

Created at 2022-03-13 18:50:29

Tags: `bash` `windows-terminal`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I know [how to change the Terminal Window title](https://askubuntu.com/questions/22413/how-to-change-gnome-terminal-title).  What I am trying to find out is how to make `bash` not `zsh` write out the currently running process so if I say do
```
$ ls -lF
```

I would get something like this for the title
```
/home/me/curerntFolder (ls -lF)
```

[Getting the last executed command](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69624234/get-last-executed-command-in-bash) would be too late since the command has executed already, so it won't set the title with the command that was executed.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can achieve this by setting the `PROMPT_COMMAND` environment variable in your `.bashrc` file. This variable is executed just before the primary prompt is printed, so you can use it to set the terminal window title.

Here's an example of how you can set the `PROMPT_COMMAND` variable to update the terminal window title with the current working directory and the last executed command:

```
PROMPT_COMMAND='echo -ne "\033]0;${PWD##*/} (${BASH_COMMAND})\007"'
```

This will set the terminal window title to the name of the current directory and the last executed command. The `${PWD##*/}` parameter expansion will extract the name of the current directory from the full path, and the `\033]0;` and `\007` escape sequences will set the terminal window title.

You can customize this command to include other information in the title, such as the user name, hostname, or date and time. Just make sure to enclose the command in single quotes to prevent any unwanted expansions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To change the title of the Terminal window dynamically based on the currently running process, you can use the `PROMPT_COMMAND` environment variable in your `bash` shell.

Here's an example of how you can set the `PROMPT_COMMAND` variable to update the Terminal window title with the current working directory and the last executed command:

```
export PROMPT_COMMAND='echo -ne "\033]0;${PWD##*/} (${BASH_COMMAND})\007"'
```

This will set the Terminal window title to the name of the current working directory and the last executed command. You can customize this to suit your needs.

You can add this line to your `~/.bashrc` file to make it persistent across Terminal sessions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To achieve this, you can use the `PROMPT_COMMAND` variable in your `.bashrc` file to set the terminal window title to the current working directory and the last executed command.

Here's an example of how you can set it up:

1. Open your `.bashrc` file in a text editor:
```
$ nano ~/.bashrc
```

2. Add the following line at the end of the file:
```
PROMPT_COMMAND='echo -ne "\033]0;${PWD##*/} (${BASH_COMMAND})\007"'
```

This will set the `PROMPT_COMMAND` variable to a command that echoes the current working directory and the last executed command, separated by a space, and sets the terminal window title to this string.

3. Save and close the file.

4. Reload your `.bashrc` file to apply the changes:
```
$ source ~/.bashrc
```

Now, whenever you execute a command in the terminal, the window title will be updated to show the current working directory and the last executed command.

--------
