
# Post \#59725591 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59725591/)

## Powershell Get-Service detailed "DESCRIPTION" of the Windows Service

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 12022 (394/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-656

Created at 2020-01-13 23:20:45

Tags: `powershell` `powershell-2.0` `powershell-3.0` `powershell-4.0` `powershell-remoting`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there a way to get the detailed "DESCRIPTION" of the Service? The below cmdlet can provide all of the properties of Windows Service including display name but it is not getting the "Description"

```
Get-Service | select -Property * | Out-GridView
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can use the `Get-WmiObject` cmdlet to retrieve the description of a Windows service. Here's an example:

```
Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Service | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description | Out-GridView
```

This will display a grid view with the name, display name, and description of all Windows services on the system. You can also filter the results by specifying the name of a specific service:

```
Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Service -Filter "Name='ServiceName'" | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description
```

Replace "ServiceName" with the name of the service you want to retrieve the description for.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can use the `Get-WmiObject` cmdlet to retrieve the description of a Windows Service. Here's an example:

```
Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Service | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description | Out-GridView
```

This will display the name, display name, and description of all Windows Services in a grid view. You can modify the `Select-Object` cmdlet to include or exclude any other properties you want.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can use the `Get-WmiObject` cmdlet to retrieve the description of a Windows service. Here's an example:

```
Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Service | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description | Out-GridView
```

This will display a grid view with the name, display name, and description of all Windows services. You can also filter the results by specifying the name of a specific service:

```
Get-WmiObject -Class Win32_Service -Filter "Name='ServiceName'" | Select-Object Name, DisplayName, Description
```

Replace "ServiceName" with the name of the service you want to retrieve the description for.

--------
