
# Post \#71117953 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71117953/)

## How to write bash function to print and run command when the command has arguments with spaces or things to be expanded

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 853 (669/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-688

Created at 2022-02-14 20:31:08

Tags: `arrays` `linux` `bash` `shell` `variable-expansion`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

In Bash scripts, I frequently find this pattern useful, where I first print the command I'm about to execute, then I execute the command:
```
echo 'Running this cmd: ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces'
ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces"

echo 'Running this cmd: df -h'
df -h

# etc.
```

Notice the  in the `echo` command to prevent variable expansion there! The idea is that I want to print the cmd I'm running, , then run it!
How do I wrap this up into a function?
Wrapping the command up into a standard bash array, and then printing and calling it, like this,  works:
```
# Print and run the passed-in command
# USAGE:
#       cmd_array=(ls -a -l -F /)
#       print_and_run_cmd cmd_array
# See:
# 1. My answer on how to pass regular "indexed" and associative arrays by reference:
#    https://stackoverflow.com/a/71060036/4561887 and
# 1. My answer on how to pass associative arrays: https://stackoverflow.com/a/71060913/4561887
print_and_run_cmd() {
    local -n array_reference="$1"
    echo "Running cmd:  ${cmd_array[@]}"
    # run the command by calling all elements of the command array at once
    ${cmd_array[@]}
}
```

For simple commands like this it works fine:
Usage:
```
cmd_array=(ls -a -l -F /)
print_and_run_cmd cmd_array
```

Output:
```
Running cmd:  ls -a -l -F /
(all output of that cmd is here)
```

But for more-complicated commands it is broken!:
Usage:
```
cmd_array=(ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces")
print_and_run_cmd cmd_array
```

Desired output:
```
Running cmd: ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces"
(all output of that command should be here)
```

Actual Output:
```
Running cmd:  ls -1 /home/gabriel/temp/some folder with spaces
ls: cannot access '/home/gabriel/temp/some': No such file or directory
ls: cannot access 'folder': No such file or directory
ls: cannot access 'with': No such file or directory
ls: cannot access 'spaces': No such file or directory
```

The , as you can see, is that `$HOME` got expanded in the `Running cmd:` line, when it shouldn't have, and the double quotes around that path argument were removed, and the  is that the command doesn't actually run.


## References:



1. my bash demo program where I have this print_and_run_cmd function: https://github.com/ElectricRCAircraftGuy/eRCaGuy_hello_world/blob/master/bash/argument_parsing__3_advanced__gen_prog_template.sh
2. where I first documented how to pass bash arrays by reference, as I do in that function: Passing arrays as parameters in bash How to pass an associative array as argument to a function in Bash?



## Follow-up question:



1. Bash: how to print and run a cmd array which has the pipe operator, |, in it




----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're facing is due to word splitting in Bash. When you use an array like `cmd_array=(ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces")`, the shell interprets each space-separated word as a separate element of the array. This is why you're seeing the error message about not being able to access '/home/gabriel/temp/some', 'folder', 'with', and 'spaces' separately.

To fix this, you can use an associative array to store the command and its arguments. Here's how you can modify your `print_and_run_cmd` function:

```bash
print_and_run_cmd() {
    local -n cmd_reference="$1"
    echo "Running cmd: ${cmd_reference[0]} ${cmd_reference[1]}"
    "${cmd_reference[0]}" "${cmd_reference[1]}"
}
```

And you can use it like this:

```bash
declare -A cmd_array
cmd_array=([0]=ls [1]="$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces")
print_and_run_cmd cmd_array
```

This will correctly handle paths with spaces in them.

However, this solution only works for commands with one argument. If you have commands with a variable number of arguments, you might need a more complex solution.

For the follow-up question, to handle commands with pipe operator, you can use `eval` function. But be aware that `eval` can be dangerous if not used carefully as it executes the string as a command, which can lead to code injection vulnerabilities. Here's how you can modify your function to handle pipes:

```bash
print_and_run_cmd() {
    local -n cmd_reference="$1"
    local cmd="${cmd_reference[@]}"
    echo "Running cmd: $cmd"
    eval "$cmd"
}
```

And you can use it like this:

```bash
cmd_array=("ls -l" "|" "grep .txt")
print_and_run_cmd cmd_array
```

This will correctly handle commands with pipe operator.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're facing is due to word splitting in bash. When you use `${cmd_array[@]}`, bash splits the array elements into words. This is why your path with spaces is being split into multiple arguments.

To solve this, you can use the `printf` function to print the command without expanding variables and use `eval` to execute the command. Here is a modified version of your function:

```bash
print_and_run_cmd() {
    local -n array_reference="$1"
    printf "Running cmd: %s\n" "${array_reference[*]}"
    eval "${array_reference[*]}"
}
```

In this function, `printf` is used to print the command. The `%s` format specifier is used to print the string as is, without expanding variables. The `[*]` index is used to join all array elements into a single string with spaces.

Then, `eval` is used to execute the command. `eval` takes a string as argument and evaluates it as a command. This allows you to execute commands that are stored in a string, with all variables and quotes preserved.

Here is how you can use this function:

```bash
cmd_array=('ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces"')
print_and_run_cmd cmd_array
```

This will print:

```
Running cmd: ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces"
```

And then execute the command.

Please note that `eval` can be dangerous if used with untrusted input, as it executes any code it is given. Make sure to only use it with trusted commands.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue you're encountering is due to the way bash handles word splitting and pathname expansion. When you use an array like this: `cmd_array=(ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces")`, the shell splits the array elements by spaces, even if they are within quotes. This is why you're getting the error `ls: cannot access '/home/gabriel/temp/some': No such file or directory`, because `ls` is trying to access each word as a separate argument.

To solve this issue, you can use a different approach where you store the command as a string, then use `eval` to execute it. Here's how you can modify your function:

```bash
print_and_run_cmd() {
    local cmd="$1"
    echo "Running cmd:  $cmd"
    eval "$cmd"
}
```

And you can use it like this:

```bash
cmd='ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces"'
print_and_run_cmd "$cmd"
```

This will give you the desired output:

```
Running cmd: ls -1 "$HOME/temp/some folder with spaces"
(all output of that command should be here)
```

However, be aware that `eval` can be dangerous if not used carefully, as it executes the command it's given. Make sure you have control over the content of the command you're passing to `eval`.

As for your follow-up question, you can use the same approach. Store the command with the pipe operator as a string, then pass it to the function:

```bash
cmd='ls -1 | grep .txt'
print_and_run_cmd "$cmd"
```

This will print and execute the command correctly.

--------
