
# Post \#60122188 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60122188/)

## How to turn off the pager for AWS CLI return value?

**Vote**: 75 (83/702) **Views**: 23240 (272/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-652

Created at 2020-02-07 22:54:49

Tags: `bash` `amazon-web-services` `amazon-sqs` `aws-cli`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am attempting to utilize the AWS CLI along with a `for` loop in bash to iteratively purge multiple SQS message queues.  The bash script works almost as intended, the problem I am having is with the return value each time the AWS CLI sends a request.  When the request is successful, it returns an empty value and opens up an interactive pager in the command line.  I then have to manually type `q` to exit the interactive screen and allow the `for` loop to continue to the next iteration.  This becomes very tedious and time consuming when attempting to purge a large number of queues.
Is there a way to configure AWS CLI to disable this interactive pager from popping up for every return value?  Or a way to pipe the return values into a separate file instead of being displayed?
I have played around with configuring different return value types (text, yaml, JSON) but haven't had any luck.  Also the `--no-pagination` parameter doesn't change the behavior.
Here's an example of the bash script I'm trying to run:
```
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The AWS CLI uses a pager program to handle its output. By default, it uses the `less` program. The behavior you're experiencing is due to this pager program.

To disable the pager, you can set the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to an empty string. You can do this in your script before calling the AWS CLI command:

```bash
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  AWS_PAGER="" aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```

This will prevent the AWS CLI from using a pager for its output.

Alternatively, if you want to disable the pager for all AWS CLI commands in your current shell session, you can export the `AWS_PAGER` variable:

```bash
export AWS_PAGER=""
```

After running this command, no AWS CLI command will use a pager for its output in your current shell session.

If you want to pipe the output into a file, you can do so by appending `> filename.txt` to the end of your command:

```bash
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  AWS_PAGER="" aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo > output.txt; 
done
```

This will write the output of each command to `output.txt`. Note that this will overwrite the file for each command. If you want to append to the file instead, use `>>` instead of `>`:

```bash
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  AWS_PAGER="" aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo >> output.txt; 
done
```

This will append the output of each command to `output.txt`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The AWS CLI uses a pager program to handle its output by default. This is why you are seeing the interactive pager for each command. You can disable this behavior by setting the AWS_PAGER environment variable to an empty string.

You can do this in your script like this:

```bash
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  AWS_PAGER="" aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```

Or you can set it once in your shell session before running the script:

```bash
export AWS_PAGER=""
```

Then run your script:

```bash
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```

This will prevent the AWS CLI from using a pager for its output.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The AWS CLI uses a pager program to handle its output. By default, it uses the `less` program. This is why you're seeing an interactive pager for each command.

You can disable this behavior by setting the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to an empty string. This will prevent AWS CLI from using a pager for its output.

You can do this in your bash script like this:

```bash
export AWS_PAGER=""
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo; 
done
```

This will set the `AWS_PAGER` environment variable to an empty string for the duration of the script, effectively disabling the pager.

If you want to disable the pager permanently, you can add the `export AWS_PAGER=""` line to your shell's profile file (like `~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile` for bash). Then, every new shell session will have this variable set.

If you want to redirect the output to a file, you can do so using the `>` operator:

```bash
export AWS_PAGER=""
for x in 1 2 3; do 
  aws sqs purge-queue --queue-url https://sqs.<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<id>/<env>-$x-<queueName>.fifo > output.txt; 
done
```

This will write the output of each command to the file `output.txt`. If you want to append the output to the file instead of overwriting it each time, you can use the `>>` operator instead of `>`.

--------
