
# Post \#60859527 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60859527/)

## How to solve "pdftk: Bad CPU type in executable" on Mac?

**Vote**: 56 (116/702) **Views**: 21276 (290/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-646

Created at 2020-03-26 00:52:42

Tags: `macos` `terminal` `pdftk`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to use pdftk but I always get this error `zsh: bad CPU type in executable: pdftk` I reinstalled pdftk and I changed the terminal from bsh to zsh as I found in my search for how to solve this error but without any success. I'm using the latest MacOS version "Catalina v10.15.4"


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you are seeing is due to the fact that MacOS Catalina only supports 64-bit applications, and pdftk is a 32-bit application. Therefore, it cannot run on MacOS Catalina.

However, there is a solution to this problem. You can use a tool called PDFtk Server, which is a command-line tool that is a part of the PDFtk toolkit. It is a reimplementation of the original PDFtk and it is compatible with MacOS Catalina.

Here are the steps to install PDFtk Server on MacOS Catalina:

1. Install Homebrew if you haven't already. Homebrew is a package manager for MacOS that makes it easy to install a wide variety of software. You can install Homebrew by pasting the following command in your terminal:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

2. Once you have Homebrew installed, you can install PDFtk Server by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
brew install pdftk-java
```

This will install PDFtk Server, which you can use just like the original PDFtk. The commands are the same, but you need to replace `pdftk` with `pdftk-java` in your commands.

For example, if you previously used a command like this:

```bash
pdftk input.pdf output output.pdf
```

You would now use this command:

```bash
pdftk-java input.pdf output output.pdf
```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing typically indicates that the application you're trying to run is not compatible with the architecture of your CPU. In this case, it seems like pdftk is not compatible with your version of MacOS.

Apple has been transitioning their new Macs to use their own Apple Silicon (M1 chip), which uses an architecture called ARM64, while older Macs use an architecture called x86_64. Some applications that were built for x86_64 do not yet have versions that are compatible with ARM64, which can cause this issue.

However, MacOS has a feature called Rosetta 2 that allows applications built for x86_64 to run on ARM64. If your Mac has an M1 chip, you might need to install Rosetta 2 to run pdftk. You can do this by trying to open a x86_64 application, which should prompt MacOS to install Rosetta 2.

If you're still having trouble, you might want to consider using a different tool that has similar functionality to pdftk but is compatible with your version of MacOS. For example, you could use qpdf or poppler-utils, both of which can be installed via Homebrew:

```bash
brew install qpdf
```

or

```bash
brew install poppler
```

Both of these tools can do many of the same things as pdftk, such as merging, splitting, and rotating PDF files.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're encountering is due to the fact that pdftk is not compatible with MacOS Catalina. Catalina only supports 64-bit applications, and pdftk is a 32-bit application. 

However, you can use a tool called PDFtk Server, which is a command-line tool that is a part of the PDFtk toolkit. It is compatible with MacOS Catalina.

Here are the steps to install PDFtk Server on MacOS Catalina:

1. Install Homebrew if you haven't already. You can install it by pasting the following command in your terminal:
   
   ```bash
   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```

2. Once Homebrew is installed, you can install PDFtk Server by running the following command in your terminal:

   ```bash
   brew install pdftk-java
   ```

3. After the installation, you can use the `pdftk-java` command in place of `pdftk`.

Please note that `pdftk-java` is a version of PDFtk ported to Java. It supports the same functionality as `pdftk` but requires Java to be installed on your machine.

--------
