
# Post \#71384840 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71384840/)

## How to execute Powershell's "start-process -Verb RunAs" from inside a Batch where the elevated command inherits the Batch's environment?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 3051 (568/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-676

Created at 2022-03-07 17:13:33

Tags: `powershell` `batch-file` `cmd` `admin` `elevation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


## 1. Problem


I have a complicated batch file where some parts need to run with elevated/admin rights (e.g. interacting with Windows services) and I found a Powershell way to do that:
```
powershell.exe -command "try {$proc = start-process -wait -Verb runas -filepath '%~nx0' -ArgumentList '<arguments>'; exit $proc.ExitCode} catch {write-host $Error; exit -10}"
```

But there's a huge caveat! The elevated instance of my script (`%~nx0`) starts with a fresh copy of environment variables and everything I `set "var=content"` before is unavailable.

## 2. What I've tried so far


This Powershell script doesn't help either because `Verb = "RunAs"` requires `UseShellExecute = $true` which in turn is mutually exclusive to/with `StartInfo.EnvironmentVariables.Add()`
```
$p = New-Object System.Diagnostics.Process
$p.StartInfo.FileName = "cmd.exe";
$p.StartInfo.Arguments = '/k set blasfg'
$p.StartInfo.UseShellExecute = $true;
$p.StartInfo.Verb = "RunAs";
$p.StartInfo.EnvironmentVariables.Add("blasfg", "C:\\Temp")

$p.Start() | Out-Null
$p.WaitForExit()
exit $p.ExitCode
```

And even if that would work I'd still need to  dozens of variables...

## 3. unappealing semi-solutions




1. helper tools like hstart - because I can't relay on external tools. Only CMD, Powershell and maybe VBscript (but it looks like runas plus wait and errorlevel/ExitCode processing isn't possible with/in vbs).
2. passing (only required) variables as arguments - because I need dozens and escaping them is an ugly chore (both the result and doing it).
3. restarting the whole script - because it's inefficient with all the parsing, checking processing and other tasks happening again (and again and ...). I'd like to keep the elevated parts to a minimum and some actions can later be run as a normal user (e.g service start/stop).
4. Writing the environment to a file and rereading it in the elevated instance - because it's an ugly hack and I'd hope there's a cleaner option out there. And writing possibly sensitive information to a file is even worse than storing it temporarily in an environment variable.




----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Unfortunately, the behavior you're experiencing is by design. When you run a process with elevated permissions, Windows starts a new process with a new set of environment variables. This is a security feature to prevent potential privilege escalation attacks.

However, you can work around this by passing the environment variables as arguments to the new process. I understand that you have concerns about this approach, but it's the most straightforward and secure way to handle this situation.

Here's a simple example of how you can do this:

```powershell
$envVars = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariables()
$args = $envVars.Keys | ForEach-Object { "-env:$($_)=$($envVars[$_])" }
Start-Process -FilePath "powershell.exe" -ArgumentList $args -Verb RunAs
```

This script gets all environment variables, formats them as arguments, and passes them to the new process. You can modify this script to only pass the environment variables you need.

If you're concerned about escaping special characters in the environment variables, you can use the `[System.Management.Automation.PSObject]::BaseObject` property to get the raw value of the environment variable:

```powershell
$envVars = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariables()
$args = $envVars.Keys | ForEach-Object { "-env:$($_)=$([System.Management.Automation.PSObject]::BaseObject($envVars[$_]))" }
Start-Process -FilePath "powershell.exe" -ArgumentList $args -Verb RunAs
```

This will ensure that special characters in the environment variables are correctly escaped.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Unfortunately, there's no straightforward way to pass environment variables to an elevated process in Windows. This is due to the way Windows handles User Account Control (UAC) and the security context of processes.

However, you can use a workaround to achieve this. You can write the environment variables to a temporary file, then read them in the elevated process. Here's an example of how you can do this:

1. Write the environment variables to a temporary file:

```batch
setlocal
set "var1=value1"
set "var2=value2"
set "var3=value3"
...
set "varN=valueN"

:: Write the environment variables to a temporary file
set > %TEMP%\env.tmp
```

2. Read the environment variables in the elevated process:

```batch
:: Read the environment variables from the temporary file
for /F "tokens=1* delims==" %%a in (%TEMP%\env.tmp) do (
    set "%%a=%%b"
)
```

This is not an ideal solution, but it should work for your case. Please note that you should delete the temporary file after you're done with it to avoid leaving sensitive information on the disk.

Also, keep in mind that this solution has some limitations. For example, it won't work if the environment variables contain special characters or multiline values. In such cases, you might need to use a more complex method to encode and decode the environment variables.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Unfortunately, the behavior you're experiencing is by design. When you run a process with elevated permissions, it's essentially a new login session, and it doesn't inherit the environment variables from the parent process.

Here are a few workarounds you might consider:

1. **Registry**: You could temporarily store your environment variables in the registry, then read them back in your elevated script. This is similar to writing to a file, but might be more secure if you're worried about sensitive information being written to disk.

2. **Named Pipes**: You could use named pipes to communicate between your two scripts. This would allow you to pass data (including environment variables) between them. This is a bit more complex, but it's very secure and doesn't involve writing anything to disk.

3. **WMI**: You could use WMI to launch your elevated process and pass environment variables to it. This is a bit more complex than the other options, but it's very flexible and powerful.

Here's an example of how you might do this:

```powershell
$envVars = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariables()

$process = ([WMIClass]"\\.\ROOT\CIMv2:Win32_Process").Create("cmd.exe /c your_script.bat", null, $envVars, $null)
```

This will create a new process and pass your current environment variables to it. Note that this will only work if your script is running with administrative privileges.

4. **Passing as arguments**: Although you've mentioned this as an unappealing solution, it might be the most straightforward way to achieve your goal. You could write a wrapper script that collects the necessary environment variables and passes them as arguments to your elevated script. This would avoid the need to write anything to disk or use any external tools.

--------
