
# Post \#66523432 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66523432/)

## Run Power Automate flow from Windows Desktop via shortcut key or command line / shell

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 12597 (389/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-647

Created at 2021-03-08 01:55:36

Tags: `powershell` `power-automate`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like to run a Power Automate flow by pressing a keyboard shortcut or alternatively calling it up from CMD or Powershell script.
The flow would simply start execution once the keyboard shortcut is pressed or a Powershell script is run.
As it is now; I need to start Power Automate and then click on play in order to start a specific flow. I am trying to avoid all that.
The ultimate goal is to, once the system is up (Windows 10) and I'm logged it, I press the shortcut key and go do something else and by the time I get back the flow is done. The flow itself works flawlessly. Please note that I am not looking for a solution which would involve smartphones and flow buttons on said phones, purely  a Windows , PC, only solution or a way to a solution.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Unfortunately, as of now, Microsoft Power Automate does not support triggering flows with a keyboard shortcut or a command line directly. However, you can achieve this by using a combination of Power Automate and other tools like PowerShell, Microsoft Power Automate Desktop, or third-party tools like AutoHotKey.

Here are two possible solutions:

**Solution 1: Using Power Automate Desktop**

Power Automate Desktop allows you to create flows that can be triggered from your local machine. You can create a desktop flow that triggers your cloud flow. Once you have your desktop flow, you can create a shortcut to it on your desktop. Unfortunately, you can't assign a keyboard shortcut directly to this, but you can use a third-party tool like AutoHotKey to assign a keyboard shortcut to this desktop shortcut.

**Solution 2: Using PowerShell and HTTP Request**

You can trigger a Power Automate flow using an HTTP request. This involves creating a flow that is triggered by an HTTP request, and then using PowerShell to send that HTTP request.

1. Create a flow in Power Automate that is triggered by an HTTP request. You can get the HTTP POST URL by saving and running the flow once.

2. Create a PowerShell script that sends an HTTP POST request to the URL from step 1. Here's a basic example:

```powershell
$url = "Your HTTP POST URL here"
Invoke-RestMethod -Uri $url -Method Post
```

3. Save this PowerShell script somewhere on your machine.

4. Create a shortcut to this PowerShell script on your desktop. You can then assign a keyboard shortcut to this desktop shortcut.

Please note that this method requires your flow to be triggered by an HTTP request, which may not be suitable for all types of flows. Also, the PowerShell method requires the PowerShell window to pop up, which may not be ideal for your situation.

Remember to replace "Your HTTP POST URL here" with the actual URL you got from Power Automate.

These are workarounds and may not be perfect solutions. Hopefully, Microsoft will add more triggering options to Power Automate in the future.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Unfortunately, there is no direct way to trigger a Power Automate flow using a keyboard shortcut or a command line script. However, there are some workarounds that you can consider:

1. **Using Power Automate Desktop**: You can create a flow in Power Automate Desktop that uses the UI automation to open Power Automate and run the specific flow. You can then create a shortcut for this desktop flow and assign a keyboard shortcut to it.

2. **Using HTTP Request Trigger**: You can create a new flow with an HTTP Request trigger. This flow can then call your original flow. You can then use a PowerShell script to make a POST request to the HTTP Request URL of the new flow. Here is a sample script:

```powershell
Invoke-RestMethod -Uri "Your Flow's HTTP Request URL" -Method Post
```

3. **Using Third-Party Tools**: There are third-party tools like AutoHotkey that allow you to automate tasks in Windows. You can create a script that opens Power Automate and runs the specific flow. You can then assign a keyboard shortcut to this script.

Please note that these are workarounds and might not work perfectly in all scenarios. Microsoft might add the feature to trigger flows using keyboard shortcuts or command line scripts in the future.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Unfortunately, Power Automate does not currently support triggering flows directly from a keyboard shortcut or a command line script. However, there are workarounds you can use to achieve similar functionality.

One way is to use a third-party automation tool like AutoHotkey or AutoIt. These tools allow you to create scripts that can simulate mouse clicks and keystrokes, which can be used to start a Power Automate flow. Here's a basic example using AutoHotkey:

1. Install AutoHotkey from https://www.autohotkey.com/
2. Create a new script file with the .ahk extension (e.g., start_flow.ahk)
3. Open the script file in a text editor and paste the following code:

```autohotkey
^!s::
Run, "C:\Path\To\PowerAutomate.exe"
WinWaitActive, Power Automate
Click, 100, 200  ; coordinates of the Play button
return
```

This script will start Power Automate and click the Play button when you press Ctrl+Alt+S. You'll need to replace "C:\Path\To\PowerAutomate.exe" with the actual path to Power Automate, and adjust the coordinates of the Click command to match the position of the Play button on your screen.

Another way is to use the Power Automate API to trigger flows programmatically. This requires more technical knowledge and involves creating a custom application in Azure AD, but it gives you more flexibility and control. You can find more information about this approach in the Power Automate documentation: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-automate/developer/apis

Please note that these are just workarounds and may not work perfectly in all situations. If you need this feature, I recommend submitting a feature request to the Power Automate team.

--------
