
# Post \#71459823 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71459823/)

## How to change the terminal title to currently running process?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 2389 (591/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-643

Created at 2022-03-13 18:50:29

Tags: `bash` `windows-terminal`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I know [how to change the Terminal Window title](https://askubuntu.com/questions/22413/how-to-change-gnome-terminal-title).  What I am trying to find out is how to make `bash` not `zsh` write out the currently running process so if I say do
```
$ ls -lF
```

I would get something like this for the title
```
/home/me/curerntFolder (ls -lF)
```

[Getting the last executed command](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69624234/get-last-executed-command-in-bash) would be too late since the command has executed already, so it won't set the title with the command that was executed.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can achieve this by using the `trap` command in bash. The `trap` command allows you to catch signals and execute code when they occur. `DEBUG` is a kind of pseudo-signal that is triggered whenever a command is executed.

Here's a simple way to set the terminal title to the currently running command:

```bash
trap 'echo -ne "\033]0;${PWD} ($BASH_COMMAND)\007"' DEBUG
```

This will set the terminal title to the current working directory followed by the currently executing command. The `echo -ne "\033]0;${PWD} ($BASH_COMMAND)\007"` part is an escape sequence that sets the terminal title.

You can add this line to your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` file to make it permanent for all new bash sessions.

Please note that this will not work perfectly with all commands. For example, if you run a command that takes a long time to execute (like `sleep 10`), the terminal title will be updated immediately, not after the command finishes. This is because the `DEBUG` trap is triggered before a command is executed, not after.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `trap` command in bash to capture the command that is about to be executed. The `DEBUG` trap is executed before every simple command, for command, case command, select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function.

Here is a simple example of how you can change the terminal title to the current command:

```bash
trap 'echo -ne "\033]0;${PWD} ($BASH_COMMAND)\007"' DEBUG
```

This will change the terminal title before executing each command. `${PWD}` is the current working directory and `${BASH_COMMAND}` is the command currently being executed or about to be executed.

You can add this line to your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` to make it permanent for all your terminal sessions.

Please note that this will not work perfectly with complex commands, especially those involving pipes (`|`) and redirections (`>`, `>>`, `<`). This is because `${BASH_COMMAND}` will only contain the part of the pipeline that is currently being executed. If you need more advanced handling of complex commands, you might need to use more advanced scripting or a different shell that supports this feature better.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `trap` command in bash to capture the command that is about to be executed. The `trap` command allows you to catch signals and execute code when they occur. `DEBUG` is a kind of pseudo-signal that is triggered right before any simple command, function, or command list is executed.

Here's a simple function that you can add to your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` file:

```bash
trap 'echo -ne "\033]0;${PWD} ($BASH_COMMAND)\007"' DEBUG
```

This will set the terminal title to the current working directory and the command that is about to be executed.

Here's how it works:

- `trap '...' DEBUG`: This sets up a trap on the DEBUG signal. The code inside the quotes is executed each time the signal is triggered.
- `echo -ne "\033]0;... \007"`: This is an escape sequence that sets the terminal title. The `-n` option tells echo not to output a newline, and the `-e` option tells it to interpret escape sequences.
- `${PWD}`: This is a variable that contains the current working directory.
- `($BASH_COMMAND)`: This is a variable that contains the command that is about to be executed.
- `\033]0;... \007`: This is the escape sequence that sets the terminal title. The `...` is replaced with the string you want to set as the title.

Please note that this will not work for commands that are run in the background or for commands that are piped into other commands. For those cases, you would need a more complex solution.

--------
