
# Post \#57053312 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57053312/)

## How to open Edge using Powershell variable?

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 37145 (200/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-680

Created at 2019-07-16 08:39:30

Tags: `windows` `powershell` `microsoft-edge`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have tried the following:

```
$edge = New-Object -com microsoft-edge.application
$edge.visible = $true
$edge.FullScreen = $true
```


But I get error:

```
New-Object : Retrieving the COM class factory for component with CLSID 
{00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000} failed
due to the following error: 80040154 Class not registered (Exception from 
HRESULT: 0x80040154 (REGDB_E_CLASSNOTREG)).
At line:1 char:9
+ $edge = New-Object -com microsoft-edge.application
+         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
+ CategoryInfo          : ResourceUnavailable: (:) [New-Object], COMException
+ FullyQualifiedErrorId : NoCOMClassIdentified,Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.NewObjectCommand
```


Am I doing something obviously wrong here?

Edit 17/07/2019 - I have changed to below:

```
$edge = Start-Process -FilePath ($Env:WinDir + "\explorer.exe") 
-ArgumentList 
"shell:Appsfolder\Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
$edge.visible = $true
$edge.FullScreen = $true
```


So now Edge opens but the Visible and Fullscreen commands return errors - anyone have any ideas?

Cheers


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're encountering is due to the fact that Microsoft Edge is not a COM object and cannot be controlled in the way you're attempting. PowerShell doesn't have the ability to control the UI of other applications in the way you're trying to do.

However, you can open Microsoft Edge in fullscreen mode using PowerShell by sending the F11 key after starting the process. Here's how you can do it:

```powershell
# Start Microsoft Edge
$edge = Start-Process -FilePath "shell:Appsfolder\Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"

# Wait for a bit to make sure Edge is open
Start-Sleep -Seconds 2

# Send F11 to go to full screen
Add-Type -TypeDefinition '
    using System;
    using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

    public class Keyboard {
        [DllImport("user32.dll")]
        public static extern void keybd_event(byte bVk, byte bScan, uint dwFlags, int dwExtraInfo);
    }
'
[Keyboard]::keybd_event(0x7A, 0, 0, 0) # Key down
Start-Sleep -Milliseconds 50
[Keyboard]::keybd_event(0x7A, 0, 2, 0) # Key up
```

This script will open Microsoft Edge and then simulate pressing the F11 key, which is the shortcut for fullscreen mode in most browsers, including Edge.

Please note that this solution is a bit of a hack and may not work perfectly in all situations. For example, if the user interacts with the computer while the script is running, the F11 key press might not go to Edge. Also, the sleep times may need to be adjusted depending on the speed of the computer.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're getting is because Microsoft Edge does not expose a COM object that can be manipulated with PowerShell in the way you're trying to do. 

The `Start-Process` command you're using in your second example will indeed open Microsoft Edge, but it doesn't return a COM object that you can manipulate with the `visible` and `FullScreen` properties. 

If you want to open Microsoft Edge in full screen mode, you can use the `-k` switch which opens the browser in kiosk mode (full screen). Here's an example:

```powershell
Start-Process msedge -ArgumentList "-k https://www.example.com"
```

This will open Microsoft Edge in full screen mode with the URL `https://www.example.com`.

Please note that you can't control the visibility of the Edge browser window using PowerShell because it doesn't expose a COM object for this purpose.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue here is that Microsoft Edge does not expose a COM object that can be used to control it programmatically, unlike Internet Explorer which does have such an object. This is why you're getting a "Class not registered" error.

The second script you posted is able to start Microsoft Edge, but you can't control it afterwards because the `Start-Process` cmdlet returns a `System.Diagnostics.Process` object, which doesn't have `Visible` or `FullScreen` properties.

If you want to open Microsoft Edge in full screen mode, you can use the `-k` switch which opens the browser in kiosk mode. Here's how you can do it:

```powershell
Start-Process msedge -ArgumentList "-k https://www.example.com"
```

This will open Edge in full screen mode, but it will also hide the address bar and tabs. If you want to keep those visible, you might need to use a different approach, such as using a UI automation tool to send the F11 key after the browser has started. 

Unfortunately, there's no built-in way in PowerShell to do this, but you can use third-party tools like AutoHotkey or Selenium WebDriver for this purpose.

--------
