
# Post \#56780782 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56780782/)

## How do I import a PowerShell module for use by a pipeline task

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 25404 (260/702) 

**Internal ID** \#4-16-660

Created at 2019-06-26 20:56:14

Tags: `powershell` `azure-devops`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `IT Operations`

Language: `bash` (full parsed tag list: `bash`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm creating a Build Pipeline in Azure DevOps. I have a PowerShell task that invokes a script inside a file - it's not "inline" PowerShell. That script needs the `Az.Accounts` module so I added `Import-Module Az.Accounts`. When I run the pipeline, I get the following:

```
Import-Module : The specified module 'Az.Accounts' was not loaded because no valid module file was found in any module 
directory.
At D:\a\1\s\XXX\XXX\XXX.ps1:14 char:1
+ Import-Module Az.Accounts
+ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    + CategoryInfo          : ResourceUnavailable: (Az.Accounts:String) [Import-Module], FileNotFoundException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : Modules_ModuleNotFound,Microsoft.PowerShell.Commands.ImportModuleCommand
```


How do I add the missing module so my script can run?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can add the `Az.Accounts` module to the PowerShell task by using the `-ModuleName` parameter of the `Import-Module` cmdlet. Here's an example:

```
- task: PowerShell@2
  inputs:
    targetType: 'filePath'
    filePath: 'path/to/your/script.ps1'
    arguments: '-Param1 Value1 -Param2 Value2'
    modulePath: '$(Build.SourcesDirectory)/path/to/modules'
    moduleName: 'Az.Accounts'
```

In the example above, the `modulePath` parameter specifies the path to the directory containing the `Az.Accounts` module, and the `moduleName` parameter specifies the name of the module to import. Make sure to replace the `path/to/your/script.ps1` and `$(Build.SourcesDirectory)/path/to/modules` with the actual paths in your pipeline.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can add the `Az.Accounts` module as a dependency in your Azure DevOps pipeline. Here's how:

1. Go to your Azure DevOps project and select the pipeline you want to modify.
2. Click on the "Edit" button to open the pipeline editor.
3. Find the PowerShell task that invokes your script and click on it to open its settings.
4. Scroll down to the "Advanced" section and click on the "Add" button next to "Inline Script".
5. In the new field that appears, add the following command: `Install-Module -Name Az.Accounts -Force`.
6. Save your changes and run the pipeline again.

This will install the `Az.Accounts` module on the agent machine before running your script, so it should be able to find and load the module without any issues.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can add the `Az.Accounts` module to your pipeline by using the `Install-Module` cmdlet in your PowerShell task. Here's an example:

```
- task: PowerShell@2
  inputs:
    targetType: 'filePath'
    filePath: 'path/to/your/script.ps1'
    arguments: '-Parameter1 Value1 -Parameter2 Value2'
    pwsh: true
    modulePath: '$(Build.SourcesDirectory)/path/to/modules'
  displayName: 'Run PowerShell script'
  env:
    PSModulePath: '$(Build.SourcesDirectory)/path/to/modules'
  continueOnError: true

- task: PowerShell@2
  inputs:
    targetType: 'inline'
    script: 'Install-Module -Name Az.Accounts -Force -Scope CurrentUser -Repository PSGallery'
  displayName: 'Install Az.Accounts module'
```

This example assumes that you have a directory called `path/to/modules` in your source code that contains the `Az.Accounts` module. If you don't have it, you can remove the `modulePath` and `env` sections and the `Install-Module` task will download the module from the PowerShell Gallery.

Note that the `continueOnError` parameter is set to `true` in the first task to avoid failing the pipeline if the module is not found.

--------
