
# Post \#63707774 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63707774/)

## Unable to start Jupyter notebook on VS Code

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 22499 (277/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-219

Created at 2020-09-02 14:31:36

Tags: `python` `visual-studio-code` `jupyter-notebook` `miniconda`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

(Using latest miniconda + VS Code on 64-bit Windows10:) After clean reinstalling VS Code, I can no longer launch jupyter notebook from within it. When I tried to create a new jupyter file for the first time, the Python extension installed `ipykernel` in my virtual environment "da38" (my main working environment). Then it stays on `Connecting to IPython kernel: Connecting to kernel` for an unusually long time, and stops with the error message `Unable to start session for kernel Python 3.8.5 64-bit ('da38':conda)` (images pasted below). I also removed and re-created da38 environment just in case. Used jupyter many times before with no issues until this new VS Code install today, and an identical setup is working on my other computer. Any help is appreciated. Thanks!
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/NM3I8.png)
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/jNOG7.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there might be an issue with the IPython kernel connection. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check if the IPython kernel is running: Open a terminal and activate your virtual environment "da38". Then run the command `jupyter kernelspec list` to see if the IPython kernel is listed. If it's not, you can try installing it by running `python -m ipykernel install --user --name da38 --display-name "Python 3.8.5 64-bit ('da38':conda)"`.

2. Check if the Jupyter extension is enabled: In VS Code, go to the Extensions panel and search for "Jupyter". Make sure the extension is installed and enabled.

3. Check if the Jupyter server is running: In VS Code, open the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P) and search for "Jupyter: Show output". If the Jupyter server is not running, you can start it by running the command "Jupyter: Start Server".

4. Try resetting the Jupyter kernel: In VS Code, open the Command Palette and search for "Jupyter: Select Kernel". Choose your "da38" environment and then select "Python 3.8.5 64-bit ('da38':conda)" as the kernel. If this doesn't work, you can try resetting the kernel by running the command "Jupyter: Restart Kernel".

Hopefully one of these solutions will help you resolve the issue. Let me know if you have any further questions or concerns.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like there might be an issue with the IPython kernel connection. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure that the IPython kernel is installed in your virtual environment. You can do this by activating the environment and running `pip list` to see if `ipykernel` is listed.

2. Try launching Jupyter Notebook outside of VS Code to see if it works. Open a command prompt or terminal, activate your virtual environment, and run `jupyter notebook`. If it works, then the issue might be with VS Code.

3. Try creating a new virtual environment and installing the IPython kernel there. Then, try launching Jupyter Notebook from within that environment in VS Code. If it works, then there might be an issue with your original virtual environment.

4. Check if there are any firewall or antivirus settings that might be blocking the connection to the IPython kernel.

5. Try updating the Python extension in VS Code to the latest version.

Hopefully, one of these solutions will help you resolve the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure that the Jupyter package is installed in your virtual environment. You can do this by activating your environment and running `conda list` or `pip list` to see if Jupyter is listed.

2. Try launching Jupyter Notebook from the command line instead of from within VS Code. Open a terminal window, activate your environment, and run the command `jupyter notebook`. This will launch Jupyter Notebook in your default web browser. If this works, then the issue may be with the VS Code integration.

3. Check that the Jupyter extension is installed and enabled in VS Code. You can do this by opening the Extensions panel (Ctrl+Shift+X) and searching for "Jupyter". If the extension is not installed, click the "Install" button. If it is installed but not enabled, click the "Enable" button.

4. Try resetting the Jupyter kernel. In VS Code, open the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P) and search for "Jupyter: Specify local or remote Jupyter server for connections". Select "Local" and then select "Python 3.8.5 64-bit ('da38':conda)" as the kernel. Then, open the Command Palette again and search for "Jupyter: Restart Kernel". This will restart the Jupyter kernel and may resolve the issue.

5. If none of the above solutions work, try uninstalling and reinstalling both VS Code and Miniconda. Make sure to completely remove all files and folders associated with both programs before reinstalling.

--------
