
# Post \#56611698 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56611698/)

## Pandas: How to read CSV file from google drive public?

**Vote**: 23 (239/702) **Views**: 53568 (156/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-198

Created at 2019-06-15 15:24:44

Tags: `python` `pandas`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I searched similar questions about reading csv from URL but I could not find a way to read csv file from google drive csv file.

My attempt:

```
import pandas as pd

url = 'https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B6GhBwm5vaB2ekdlZW5WZnppb28/view?usp=sharing'
dfs = pd.read_html(url)
```


How can we read this file in pandas?

Related links:  

- [Pandas read_csv from url](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32400867/pandas-read-csv-from-url)- [https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/version/0.22/io.html#io-read-html](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/version/0.22/io.html#io-read-html)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue here is that the URL you're using is a link to the Google Drive viewer, not a direct link to the file. To read a CSV file from Google Drive into a pandas DataFrame, you need to get the shareable link and replace the part of the URL that says `/file/d/` with `/uc?id=` and `/view?usp=sharing` with `&export=download`.

Here's how you can do it:

```python
import pandas as pd

google_drive_file_id = '0B6GhBwm5vaB2ekdlZW5WZnppb28'
file_download_link = f'https://drive.google.com/uc?id={google_drive_file_id}&export=download'

df = pd.read_csv(file_download_link)
```

This will download the file and read it into a pandas DataFrame. 

Please note that this method will only work if the file is shared publicly. If the file isn't public, you'll need to use the Google Drive API to authenticate and download the file.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The Google Drive URL you are using is a web page, not a direct link to a file. To read a CSV file from Google Drive, you need to get the file's ID from the URL and modify the URL to use Google Drive's direct download feature.

Here is how you can do it:

```python
import pandas as pd

# This is the id of your file
file_id = '0B6GhBwm5vaB2ekdlZW5WZnppb28'

# Create the new url
url = 'https://drive.google.com/uc?export=download&id=' + file_id

# Then read it as usual
df = pd.read_csv(url)
```

In this code, `file_id` is the ID of your file, which is the part of the original URL between '/d/' and '/view'. The new URL uses 'https://drive.google.com/uc?export=download&id=' + file_id, which is a direct download link to the file. Then, you can use `pd.read_csv(url)` to read the file as usual.

Please note that this will only work if the file is shared publicly. If the file is private, you will need to use the Google Drive API to authenticate and access the file.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The problem is that the URL you're using is a Google Drive's web interface URL, not a direct link to the file. To read a CSV file from Google Drive into a pandas DataFrame, you need to get the file's ID from the URL and modify it to be read by pandas.

Here's how you can do it:

```python
import pandas as pd

# This is the id of your file
file_id = '0B6GhBwm5vaB2ekdlZW5WZnppb28'

# Create the new URL
url = 'https://drive.google.com/uc?export=download&id=' + file_id

# Then read it as usual
df = pd.read_csv(url)
```

This will create a direct download link for the file. The `export=download` part tells Google Drive to download the file and the `id` part specifies which file to download.

Please note that this method only works for files that have been shared publicly. If the file is private, you'll need to use the Google Drive API to authenticate and download the file.

--------
