
# Post \#70519979 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70519979/)

## printing with RGB background

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 958 (662/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-244

Created at 2021-12-29 13:17:18

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `printing`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I know its possible to print RGB colored text like so:
```
def colored(r, g, b, text):
    return "\033[38;2;{};{};{}m{} \033[39m".format(r, g, b, text)


text = "Hello, World"
colored_text = colored(132, 204, 247, text)
print(colored_text)
```

But, is there a way to print with RGB colored ?
Cuz, as far as I know, there are a few kinda built-in background colors for printing. But I want to be able to use rgb codes and get the appropriate background color for the printed text.
Is this possible?
Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, it is possible to print with RGB colored background using ANSI escape codes. Here is an example code to print text with RGB colored background:

```
def colored_bg(r, g, b, text):
    return "\033[48;2;{};{};{}m{}\033[0m".format(r, g, b, text)

text = "Hello, World"
colored_text = colored_bg(132, 204, 247, text)
print(colored_text)
```

This code uses the ANSI escape code `\033[48;2;{r};{g};{b}m` to set the background color to the specified RGB values, and `\033[0m` to reset the color to the default. You can modify the RGB values to get the desired background color.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, it is possible to print with RGB colored background using ANSI escape codes. Here's an example code that demonstrates how to do it:

```
def colored_bg(r, g, b, text):
    return "\033[48;2;{};{};{}m{}\033[0m".format(r, g, b, text)

text = "Hello, World"
colored_text = colored_bg(132, 204, 247, text)
print(colored_text)
```

In this code, the `colored_bg` function takes the RGB values for the background color and the text to be printed. It then returns a string with the appropriate ANSI escape codes to set the background color and print the text.

The escape code `\033[48;2;{r};{g};{b}m` sets the background color to the specified RGB values, and `\033[0m` resets the color to the default.

Note that not all terminals support RGB colors, so the output may not be exactly as expected on some systems.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, it is possible to print with RGB colored background using ANSI escape codes. Here's an example code that demonstrates how to do it:

```
def colored_bg(r, g, b, text):
    return "\033[48;2;{};{};{}m{}\033[0m".format(r, g, b, text)

text = "Hello, World"
colored_text = colored_bg(132, 204, 247, text)
print(colored_text)
```

In this code, the `colored_bg` function takes the RGB values for the background color and the text to be printed. It then returns the ANSI escape code for setting the background color to the specified RGB value and printing the text. The `"\033[0m"` at the end resets the color to the default color.

Note that not all terminals support RGB colors, so this may not work on all systems.

--------
