
# Post \#64193452 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64193452/)

## Evaluating the end time of a period of time

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 7102 (480/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-207

Created at 2020-10-04 10:22:06

Tags: `python-3.x`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am working on a simple code able to evaluate the end time of a period of time, given as a number of minutes (it could be arbitrarily large). The start time is given as a pair of hours (0..23) and minutes (0..59). The result has to be printed to the console.

So far I tried below code and finding difficult to get hours calculation please help.
```
hour = int(input("Starting time (hours): "))
mins = int(input("Starting time (minutes): "))
dura = int(input("Event duration (minutes): "))
mins = (mins + dura)%60
hour = **** Please help this calculation ****
print(hour, ":", mins, sep='')
#expected output is 13:16 (ex: given hour = 12 , mins = 17 , dura = 59 )
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To calculate the end time in hours, you need to add the duration to the starting hour and handle the case where the result is greater than 23 (since hours are in the range 0..23). Here's the updated code:

```
hour = int(input("Starting time (hours): "))
mins = int(input("Starting time (minutes): "))
dura = int(input("Event duration (minutes): "))
mins = (mins + dura) % 60
hour = (hour + (mins + dura) // 60) % 24
print(hour, ":", mins, sep='')
```

In this code, we first calculate the new value of `mins` as before. Then we calculate the number of hours that have passed by adding `dura` to `mins` and integer dividing the result by 60 (to get the number of hours). We add this value to the starting hour and take the result modulo 24 to handle the case where the end time is on the next day. Finally, we print the result as before.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To calculate the end time in hours, you need to add the number of hours in the duration to the starting hour. However, you also need to take into account the possibility of the end time being on the next day if the duration is long enough. Here is an updated version of your code that should work:

```
hour = int(input("Starting time (hours): "))
mins = int(input("Starting time (minutes): "))
dura = int(input("Event duration (minutes): "))
mins = (mins + dura) % 60
hour = (hour + (mins + dura) // 60) % 24
print(hour, ":", mins, sep='')
```

In this code, we first calculate the end time in minutes by adding the starting minutes and the duration, and then taking the modulo 60 to get the final minutes. 

Next, we calculate the number of hours in the duration by adding the minutes and duration, dividing by 60, and taking the integer part. We add this to the starting hour, and then take the modulo 24 to get the final hour, taking into account the possibility of the end time being on the next day.

Finally, we print the end time in the desired format.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To calculate the end time in hours, you can use integer division to determine how many hours the duration represents, and then add that to the starting hour. Here's the updated code:

```
hour = int(input("Starting time (hours): "))
mins = int(input("Starting time (minutes): "))
dura = int(input("Event duration (minutes): "))
mins = (mins + dura) % 60
hour = (hour + (mins + dura) // 60) % 24
print(hour, ":", mins, sep='')
```

In this code, we first calculate the total number of minutes elapsed by adding `mins` and `dura`. We then use integer division (`//`) to determine how many hours that represents, and add that to the starting hour. Finally, we use modulo (`%`) to ensure that the result is within the range of 0 to 23.

--------
