
# Post \#66958237 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66958237/)

## Query aws to list all resources using boto3 python sdk

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 6882 (485/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-220

Created at 2021-04-05 18:53:36

Tags: `python` `amazon-web-services` `boto3`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there a way to get all the resources in the aws account through python code using boto3. I went through the documentation, didn't find any list function which might solve this.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

There isn't a single function in boto3 that can list all resources across all AWS services. AWS is composed of many different services (EC2, S3, RDS, etc.), each with its own set of resources. Boto3 provides an interface to each of these services, and you can list resources within those services.

For example, to list all EC2 instances, you would do:

```python
import boto3

ec2 = boto3.resource('ec2')

for instance in ec2.instances.all():
    print(instance.id, instance.state)
```

To list all S3 buckets:

```python
import boto3

s3 = boto3.resource('s3')

for bucket in s3.buckets.all():
    print(bucket.name)
```

And so on for other services. If you want to get a list of all resources across all services, you would need to call the appropriate list function for each service.

Also, keep in mind that some resources might not be accessible depending on the permissions of the AWS account you're using.

If you want to get a list of all services available in boto3, you can use `boto3.session.Session().get_available_services()`. This will return a list of all service names, which you can then use to access each service individually. However, not all services have a resource object available, some of them can only be accessed via client object. 

Remember to configure your AWS credentials before running these scripts. You can do this by setting the AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, and AWS_SESSION_TOKEN environment variables, or by using the AWS CLI's aws configure command.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

There isn't a single function in boto3 to list all resources across all AWS services. AWS is made up of many different services (EC2, S3, RDS, etc.), and each of these services have their own set of resources. Boto3 has separate clients for each service, and you would need to interact with each of these clients to list their resources.

Here is an example of how you might list all EC2 instances and S3 buckets:

```python
import boto3

def list_resources():
    ec2 = boto3.resource('ec2')
    for instance in ec2.instances.all():
        print(instance.id, instance.state)

    s3 = boto3.resource('s3')
    for bucket in s3.buckets.all():
        print(bucket.name)

list_resources()
```

In this example, we're creating a resource object for EC2 and S3 each. Then we're using the `.all()` function to list all instances/buckets and print their details.

You would need to do this for each service you are interested in. The boto3 documentation provides a list of all the available services and their resources: https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/index.html

Remember to configure your AWS credentials before running the script. You can do this by setting the AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, and optionally, AWS_SESSION_TOKEN environment variables, or by using the AWS CLI's `aws configure` command.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

There isn't a single function in boto3 that will list all resources across all AWS services, because boto3 is organized by service. You would need to call the list or describe function for each service that you're interested in. 

Here's an example of how you might list all EC2 instances and S3 buckets:

```python
import boto3

def list_ec2_instances():
    ec2 = boto3.resource('ec2')
    for instance in ec2.instances.all():
        print(instance.id, instance.state)

def list_s3_buckets():
    s3 = boto3.resource('s3')
    for bucket in s3.buckets.all():
        print(bucket.name)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    list_ec2_instances()
    list_s3_buckets()
```

You would need to do something similar for each service that you're interested in (RDS, DynamoDB, etc). 

Also, please note that these scripts will list resources in the default region (as specified in your AWS config), so if you have resources in multiple regions, you'll need to specify the region when you create the resource object, like so:

```python
ec2 = boto3.resource('ec2', region_name='us-west-2')
```

Remember to replace 'us-west-2' with the actual region that you want to list resources for. You might need to run the script multiple times, once for each region.

--------
