
# Post \#49324802 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49324802/)

## pip always fails ssl verification

**Vote**: 44 (143/702) **Views**: 127454 (67/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-302

Created at 2018-03-16 15:50:09

Tags: `ssl` `pip`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Pip always fails ssl even when I do `pip install dedupe` or `pip install --trusted-host pypi.python.org dedupe`

The output is always the same no matter what:

> Collecting dedupeRetrying (Retry(total=4, connect=None, read=None,
  redirect=None, status=None)) after connection broken by
  'SSLError(SSLError(1, '[SSL: CERTIFICATE_VERIFY_FAILED] certificate
  verify failed (_ssl.c:777)'),)': /simple/dedupe/
  Retrying...skippingCould not find a version that satisfies the requirement dedupe (from versions: ) No matching distribution found for dedupe

So I uninstalled anaconda and reinstalled it. Same thing.

Do you think the problem is that my _ssl.c file (which I have no idea where it is) must be corrupt or something? Why would pip need to reference that if I'm telling it to bypass ssl verification anyway?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is due to pip not being able to verify the SSL certificate of the server it's trying to connect to. This can be caused by a few different things, such as a misconfigured system clock, a network issue, or a problem with the Python installation itself.

The `--trusted-host` option you're using with pip doesn't actually bypass SSL verification, it just tells pip to trust the specified host even if it can't verify its SSL certificate. However, pip will still attempt to verify the certificate, and if it can't, it will fail with the error message you're seeing.

Here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. **Check your system clock.** If your system clock is significantly off, it can cause SSL verification to fail. Make sure your system clock is set to the correct time.

2. **Try using a different network.** Sometimes network issues or firewalls can interfere with SSL verification. If possible, try connecting to a different network and see if that resolves the issue.

3. **Upgrade pip.** If you're using an older version of pip, it might not be able to properly verify SSL certificates. You can upgrade pip by running `python -m pip install --upgrade pip`.

4. **Reinstall Python.** If none of the above solutions work, there might be a problem with your Python installation. Uninstalling and reinstalling Python might resolve the issue.

5. **Use pip with the `--cert` option.** If you're in an environment where you have a specific CA bundle, you can point pip to use it with the `--cert` option like so: `pip install --cert /path/to/certbundle.pem dedupe`.

Remember that bypassing SSL verification can expose you to security risks, so it's generally not recommended unless you understand the implications and accept the risks.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're seeing is due to pip not being able to verify the SSL certificate of the server it's trying to connect to. This is not necessarily an issue with your `_ssl.c` file. 

The `--trusted-host` option you're using is supposed to tell pip to trust the specified host, but it doesn't always work as expected. 

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Upgrade pip: Sometimes these issues can be resolved by upgrading pip to the latest version. You can do this with the following command:

    ```
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    ```

2. Use a different index URL: You can tell pip to use a different index URL that might not have the same SSL issues. For example:

    ```
    pip install --index-url=http://pypi.python.org/simple/ --trusted-host pypi.python.org dedupe
    ```

3. Disable SSL verification: This is generally not recommended because it makes your connection insecure, but if you're just trying to get something installed and you trust the source, you can tell pip to ignore SSL errors:

    ```
    pip install --trusted-host pypi.python.org --index-url=http://pypi.python.org/simple/ --trusted-host pypi.python.org dedupe
    ```

4. Check your system time: SSL verification relies on your system time being correct. If your system time is significantly off, it could cause SSL verification to fail.

5. If you're behind a corporate firewall or proxy, it might be interfering with pip's ability to connect to the server. You might need to configure pip to use a proxy, or talk to your network administrator about how to get around this issue.

Remember, bypassing SSL verification can expose you to security risks, so it's generally better to try to fix the underlying issue rather than just ignoring the error.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is due to pip not being able to verify the SSL certificate of the server it's trying to connect to. This is not necessarily a problem with your `_ssl.c` file.

The `--trusted-host` option in pip is used to mark a certain host as trusted, regardless of SSL certificate. However, it doesn't bypass SSL verification entirely. The SSL connection is still established, but pip just doesn't verify the certificate of the specified host.

The error message suggests that pip is having trouble establishing an SSL connection to the server. This could be due to a number of reasons, including network issues, firewall settings, or issues with the SSL library on your system.

Here are a few things you could try:

1. Upgrade pip: Sometimes these issues can be resolved by upgrading pip to the latest version. You can do this with the following command:

    ```
    pip install --upgrade pip
    ```

2. Use a different network: If you're on a corporate network, it's possible that your network's firewall is blocking the connection. Try connecting from a different network, or speak to your network administrator.

3. Check your SSL library: Python uses the OpenSSL library for SSL connections. It's possible that there's an issue with this library on your system. You can check the version of OpenSSL that Python is using with the following command:

    ```
    python -c "import ssl; print(ssl.OPENSSL_VERSION)"
    ```

    If you're using an outdated version of OpenSSL, you might need to update it. The process for this varies depending on your operating system.

4. Use HTTP instead of HTTPS: As a last resort, you can try using HTTP instead of HTTPS to download the package. This is not recommended as it's less secure, but it can be a useful troubleshooting step. You can do this by adding the `--trusted-host` option with the HTTP URL of the PyPI server:

    ```
    pip install --trusted-host pypi.org --trusted-host files.pythonhosted.org dedupe
    ```

Remember that this should only be used as a temporary workaround, and you should switch back to HTTPS as soon as possible.

--------
