
# Post \#64218755 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64218755/)

## Getting Error 403 in Google Colab with Tensorboard with Firefox

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 7866 (466/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-268

Created at 2020-10-06 03:01:51

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `firefox` `google-colaboratory` `tensorboard`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a tfevent file already present on my Drive and I have successfully connected it to Google Colab. After searching within the issues of Tensorboard Github, I found that I had to set dom.serviceWorkers.enabled to True which I have done. But on Google Colab after performing the two steps:

1. %load_ext tensorboard
2. %tensorboard --logdir path/to/logs


I am getting a Error 403 on the second step cell:[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/TuHkS.png)
I am using Firefox version 81.0.1 (64-bit) and my default mode is Private Window, so history and cache are cleared after I close all browser window.
Can someone help me with this?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error 403 you're seeing is an HTTP status code that means "Forbidden". It's possible that the issue is related to the permissions of the file or directory you're trying to access. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check the permissions of the tfevent file and the log directory. Make sure that the user running the Jupyter notebook has read and write access to these files.

2. Try to access the TensorBoard directly from your local machine instead of through Google Colab. You can do this by running the same commands in a local Jupyter notebook or in a Python script.

3. Try to use a different browser or disable the private mode. Some users have reported issues with TensorBoard when using Firefox in private mode.

4. Make sure that the path to the log directory is correct. If the path is incorrect, TensorBoard might not be able to find the tfevent file.

5. If you're running this in a virtual environment, make sure that the environment has access to the necessary resources.

If none of these suggestions work, it might be helpful to provide more information about your setup, such as the exact commands you're running, the full error message, and any other relevant details.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're encountering is likely due to the fact that TensorBoard is trying to access a local file system (your computer's file system) from Google Colab, which is a cloud-based environment. 

Here are the steps to solve this issue:

1. Upload your tfevent files to Google Drive.

2. Mount your Google Drive in your Google Colab notebook. You can do this with the following code:

```python
from google.colab import drive
drive.mount('/content/gdrive')
```

3. After running this code, you'll be provided with a link to get an authorization code. Click on the link, allow access, and then copy the authorization code that is provided.

4. Paste the authorization code into the input box in your Google Colab notebook and press Enter.

5. Now your Google Drive is mounted, and you can access your files from Google Colab. You can check the files in your Google Drive with the following code:

```python
!ls "/content/gdrive/My Drive"
```

6. Now, you can run TensorBoard with the path to the logs in your Google Drive. Replace `path/to/logs` with the actual path to your tfevent files in your Google Drive.

```python
%tensorboard --logdir="/content/gdrive/My Drive/path/to/logs"
```

This should solve your issue. If you still encounter problems, please let me know.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error 403 you're seeing is an HTTP status code that means "Forbidden". This error is usually caused by a lack of file or directory permissions. 

In your case, it seems like the TensorBoard server is unable to access the log directory you specified. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check the path: Make sure the path you provided to the `--logdir` argument is correct. The path should be the absolute path to the directory containing your TensorFlow event files.

2. Check the permissions: Make sure that the Google Colab environment has the necessary permissions to read the directory and its contents. If the directory or the files inside it are owned by a different user, or if their permissions are set incorrectly, you might see a 403 error.

3. Use Google Drive: If your event files are on Google Drive, you can mount your Google Drive in the Colab environment and then point TensorBoard to the appropriate directory on your Drive.

Here's how you can mount your Google Drive:

```python
from google.colab import drive
drive.mount('/content/gdrive')
```

After mounting, you can access your files under '/content/gdrive/My Drive/'. So, if your logs are in a directory named 'logs' in your Google Drive, you can start TensorBoard like this:

```python
%tensorboard --logdir='/content/gdrive/My Drive/logs'
```

4. Try a different browser: There might be an issue with your browser or its settings. Try using a different browser, or try disabling the private browsing mode.

5. Update packages: Make sure your packages are up to date. You can update TensorBoard with the following command:

```python
!pip install --upgrade tensorboard
```

6. Restart the runtime: Sometimes, restarting the Colab runtime can help. You can do this by clicking on 'Runtime' in the menu and then 'Restart runtime...'. After the restart, you'll need to remount your Google Drive if you're using it.

--------
