
# Post \#65593796 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65593796/)

## Coverting all the list elements to string using Python?

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 5065 (520/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-242

Created at 2021-01-06 10:08:59

Tags: `python` `string` `list`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a list:
```
roll = [1, 2, 3]
```

For converting each of the element into a string, can we directly do `roll = str(roll)` rather that iterating over it and calling `str()` on each element? Is this a correct way?
I am new to Python, any hint in the right direction will do!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

No, calling `str(roll)` will not convert each element in the list to a string. Instead, it will convert the entire list to a single string, which is not what you want.

If you want to convert each element in the list to a string, you need to iterate over the list and call `str()` on each element. You can do this using a for loop, but a more Pythonic way is to use a list comprehension.

Here is how you can do it:

```python
roll = [1, 2, 3]
roll = [str(i) for i in roll]
```

In this code, `[str(i) for i in roll]` is a list comprehension that creates a new list by iterating over `roll` and applying `str(i)` to each element `i`. The result is a new list where each element is a string.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

No, calling `str(roll)` will convert the entire list to a single string, not each individual element. The output will be '[1, 2, 3]'. 

If you want to convert each element in the list to a string, you need to iterate over the list and call `str()` on each element. You can do this with a list comprehension, which is a compact way of creating a new list by performing an operation on each item in an existing list. Here's how you can do it:

```python
roll = [1, 2, 3]
roll = [str(i) for i in roll]
```

After running this code, `roll` will be `['1', '2', '3']`, which is a list of strings.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

No, calling `str(roll)` will convert the entire list into a string, not each individual element. It will result in a string that looks like this: "[1, 2, 3]".

If you want to convert each individual element in the list to a string, you need to iterate over the list and call `str()` on each element. You can do this with a list comprehension, which is a compact way of creating a new list by performing an operation on each item in an existing list.

Here's how you can do it:

```python
roll = [1, 2, 3]
roll = [str(i) for i in roll]
```

After running this code, `roll` will be `['1', '2', '3']`, which is a list of strings.

--------
