
# Post \#68244369 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68244369/)

## Python: How to str.replace multiple different strings with the same replacement?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 4812 (527/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-310

Created at 2021-07-04 11:42:01

Tags: `python`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to replace multiple different strings with the same string replace rule.
```
list_names = ['!sdf?', '!sdfds?', '!afsafsa?', '!afasf?']

for i in list_names:
    vari1 = list_names[1]
    vari2 = list_names[2]
    vari3 = list_names[3]
```

I am trying to replace the ! and the ? above with ''.
At the moment I can do this string by string using the below code:
```
list_names = ['!sdf?', '!sdfds?', '!afsafsa?', '!afasf?']
for i in list_names:
    vari1 = list_names[1]
    vari2 = list_names[2]
    vari3 = list_names[3]
    vari1 = vari1.replace('!', '').replace('?', '')
    vari2 = vari2.replace('!', '').replace('?', '')
    vari3 = vari3.replace('!', '').replace('?', '')
```

I am aware it doesn't make sense to use a loop in the above code. But I intend to build on this.
Given that the string replaces are the same for all 3 variables, is there any easy way to do this for all of them at once?
Thanks!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can use a loop to iterate over the list and replace the characters in each string. Here's how you can do it:

```python
list_names = ['!sdf?', '!sdfds?', '!afsafsa?', '!afasf?']

for i in range(len(list_names)):
    list_names[i] = list_names[i].replace('!', '').replace('?', '')

print(list_names)
```

This will replace the '!' and '?' characters in each string in the list. The `range(len(list_names))` is used to iterate over the indices of the list, so that we can modify the elements in-place. The `replace` function is called twice to replace both characters. The modified list is then printed out.

This will give you the output:

```python
['sdf', 'sdfds', 'afsafsa', 'afasf']
```

This way, you don't need to manually create and replace each variable. The loop does it for all elements in the list.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can use a list comprehension to apply the replace function to all strings in the list at once. Here's how you can do it:

```python
list_names = ['!sdf?', '!sdfds?', '!afsafsa?', '!afasf?']

list_names = [s.replace('!', '').replace('?', '') for s in list_names]

print(list_names)
```

This will replace '!' and '?' in all strings in the list. The result will be stored back in the `list_names` variable. The `print(list_names)` will output the modified list.

The list comprehension `[s.replace('!', '').replace('?', '') for s in list_names]` goes through each string `s` in `list_names`, applies the replace functions to `s`, and collects the results into a new list.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can use a list comprehension to apply the replace operation to all elements in the list at once. Here's how you can do it:

```python
list_names = ['!sdf?', '!sdfds?', '!afsafsa?', '!afasf?']
list_names = [i.replace('!', '').replace('?', '') for i in list_names]
```

In this code, `i.replace('!', '').replace('?', '')` is applied to each element `i` in `list_names`. The result is a new list where each element is the result of the replace operation.

If you want to store the results in separate variables, you can do it like this:

```python
vari1, vari2, vari3, vari4 = [i.replace('!', '').replace('?', '') for i in list_names]
```

This will assign the first element of the new list to `vari1`, the second to `vari2`, and so on. Note that this assumes that `list_names` has exactly four elements. If it has more or less, you will get an error.

--------
