
# Post \#64155277 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64155277/)

## Errno - 13 Permission denied: '/media/ - Django

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 7824 (468/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-279

Created at 2020-10-01 12:20:02

Tags: `python` `django` `ubuntu` `django-models` `permission-denied`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using Django 3.1 in ubuntu,
I got an error while uploading media files
```
PermissionError at /admin/main/artist/1/change/
[Errno 13] Permission denied: '/media/artists'

Exception Type: PermissionError
Exception Value:    
[Errno 13] Permission denied: '/media/artists'
Exception Location: /usr/lib/python3.8/os.py, line 223, in makedirs
Python Executable:  /home/rahul/.local/share/virtualenvs/music-69qL54Ia/bin/python
```

This code works in windows, but not in ubuntu
Settings.py
```
STATIC_URL = '/static/'
STATICFILES_DIRS = [BASE_DIR / 'static']

MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
MEDIA_ROOT = BASE_DIR / '/media/'
```

Models.py
```
class Artist(models.Model):
    image = models.ImageField(upload_to='artists/%Y/%m/%d/', default='demo-artist.jpg', null=True, blank=True)
```

I tried this but didn't work
```
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21797372/django-errno-13-permission-denied-var-www-media-animals-user-uploads
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is due to the Django process not having write permissions to the `/media/artists` directory on your Ubuntu system. 

In your settings.py file, you have set `MEDIA_ROOT` to `BASE_DIR / '/media/'`. This will resolve to an absolute path, `/media/`, not a path relative to your `BASE_DIR`. This is likely not what you intended, and could be the cause of the problem.

You should change your `MEDIA_ROOT` setting to be a path relative to `BASE_DIR`. Here's how you can do it:

```python
MEDIA_ROOT = BASE_DIR / 'media'
```

After making this change, you'll need to ensure that the Django process has write permissions to the `media` directory within your project directory. You can do this by changing the owner of the directory to the user that runs the Django process, or by changing the permissions of the directory to allow write access.

Here's how you can change the permissions of the directory to allow write access:

```bash
chmod -R 775 /path/to/your/project/media
```

Replace `/path/to/your/project/media` with the actual path to the `media` directory in your project.

If you're not sure what user is running the Django process, you can find out by adding the following line to one of your views, and then visiting that view in your web browser:

```python
import os
print(os.getuid())
```

This will print the user ID of the user running the Django process. You can then use the `chown` command to change the owner of the `media` directory to this user:

```bash
chown -R userid /path/to/your/project/media
```

Replace `userid` with the user ID you found out earlier, and `/path/to/your/project/media` with the actual path to the `media` directory in your project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're seeing is due to the Django process not having write permissions to the directory where it's trying to save the uploaded file.

First, you need to make sure that the path you're trying to write to exists. If the directory doesn't exist, you'll need to create it. You can do this with the following command:

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /media/artists
```

Next, you need to change the owner of the directory to the user that runs the Django process. If you're running Django with a user named 'rahul', you would do this with the following command:

```bash
sudo chown -R rahul:rahul /media/artists
```

Finally, you need to give the Django process write permissions to the directory. You can do this with the following command:

```bash
sudo chmod -R 775 /media/artists
```

Also, there seems to be an issue with your `MEDIA_ROOT` setting in your `settings.py`. You should not have a leading slash in the path. Change it to:

```python
MEDIA_ROOT = BASE_DIR / 'media/'
```

After making these changes, try uploading a file again. If you're still having issues, the problem might be somewhere else in your code.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is due to the Django process not having write permissions to the directory where it's trying to save the uploaded file. 

The issue is likely with the `MEDIA_ROOT` setting in your `settings.py` file. 

You have:

```python
MEDIA_ROOT = BASE_DIR / '/media/'
```

This is trying to use an absolute path `/media/`, which is a directory at the root of your filesystem. 

Instead, you should use a path relative to your `BASE_DIR`. Change your `MEDIA_ROOT` to:

```python
MEDIA_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'media')
```

This will set your `MEDIA_ROOT` to a `media` directory in the same directory as your `BASE_DIR`.

Also, make sure that the user running the Django process has write permissions to this directory. You can change the permissions of the directory by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /path/to/your/project/media
sudo chmod -R 755 /path/to/your/project/media
```

Replace `/path/to/your/project/media` with the actual path to your `media` directory. 

This command changes the owner of the directory to the current user and sets the correct permissions.

--------
