
# Post \#65007143 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65007143/)

## pyqt5_tools designer.exe does not exist

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 5579 (508/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-177

Created at 2020-11-25 14:55:23

Tags: `python` `pip`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have installed PyQT5 by command `pip install pyqt5 pyqt5-tools`. Then I want to show path for designer.exe. However I could not found that in  directory. These are content of that folder.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/q6Vl2.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The designer.exe file is not included in the PyQT5 package. You need to install the Qt Designer separately. 

You can download the Qt Designer from the official Qt website: https://www.qt.io/download. 

Once you have downloaded and installed the Qt Designer, you can find the designer.exe file in the installation directory. The default installation directory is C:\Qt\Qt5.x.x\Tools\QtDesigner\bin. 

Make sure to add the directory containing designer.exe to your system's PATH environment variable so that you can access it from anywhere in the command prompt.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `designer.exe` file is usually located in the `Scripts` folder within the directory where Python is installed. 

You can try searching for the `designer.exe` file by following these steps:

1. Open the command prompt or terminal.
2. Type `where designer.exe` and press Enter.
3. If the file is found, the command prompt will display the full path to the file.

If the file is not found, you may need to reinstall PyQT5 and make sure that you select the option to install the designer tool during the installation process.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The designer.exe file is usually located in the `Scripts` folder of your Python installation directory. You can try the following steps to locate the designer.exe file:

1. Open the command prompt or terminal.
2. Type `where designer.exe` and press Enter.
3. If the designer.exe file is installed on your system, the command prompt will display the path to the file.

If the above steps do not work, you can try reinstalling PyQT5 and PyQT5-tools using the following command:

```
pip uninstall pyqt5 pyqt5-tools
pip install pyqt5 pyqt5-tools
```

This should ensure that all the necessary files are installed correctly, including the designer.exe file.

--------
