
# Post \#71889289 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71889289/)

## Iterating through list of lists of lists

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 1187 (647/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-289

Created at 2022-04-15 21:54:31

Tags: `python` `list` `loops` `for-loop` `iteration`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to iterate through a 3-D list in python(not numpy but I am willing to convert to a numpy array if this makes it easier) in such a way that from a list like this:
```
a = [[[0, 0], [3, 0]], [[1, 0], [4, 0]], [[2, 0], [6, 0]] ]
```

I can get the output
```
[0,0]
[1,0]
[2,0]
[3,0]
[4,0]
[6,0]
```

I can't figure out how to make it iterate like this...
My code:
```
a = [[[0, 0], [0, 0]], [[1, 0], [0, 0]], [[2, 0], [0, 0]] ]
for i in range(len(a)):
    for z in range(len(a[i])):
        print(a[i][z])
```

I've tried different things but can't seem to get this output.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Your current code is almost correct. You just need to change the order of your loops. You're currently iterating over the outermost list first, but you want to iterate over the innermost lists first. Here's how you can do it:

```python
a = [[[0, 0], [3, 0]], [[1, 0], [4, 0]], [[2, 0], [6, 0]] ]

for i in range(len(a[0])):
    for z in range(len(a)):
        print(a[z][i])
```

This will first iterate over the inner lists (the pairs of numbers), and then over the outer list (the list of pairs). This way, you're printing the first element of each pair before the second one.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Your code is almost correct. The only thing you need to change is the order of your loops. You are currently iterating over the outermost list first, then the inner lists. However, you want to iterate over the inner lists first, then the outer list. Here's how you can do it:

```python
a = [[[0, 0], [3, 0]], [[1, 0], [4, 0]], [[2, 0], [6, 0]] ]

for i in range(len(a[0])): # iterate over the first inner list
    for z in range(len(a)): # then iterate over the outer list
        print(a[z][i])
```

This will give you the desired output:

```
[0, 0]
[1, 0]
[2, 0]
[3, 0]
[4, 0]
[6, 0]
```

This works because you are first iterating over the elements of the inner lists (i.e., the pairs of numbers), then iterating over the outer list to get each inner list in turn. This way, you get the pairs of numbers in the order you want.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You are almost there. You just need to iterate over the inner lists as well. Here's how you can do it:

```python
a = [[[0, 0], [3, 0]], [[1, 0], [4, 0]], [[2, 0], [6, 0]]]

for sublist1 in a:
    for sublist2 in sublist1:
        print(sublist2)
```

This will print:

```python
[0, 0]
[3, 0]
[1, 0]
[4, 0]
[2, 0]
[6, 0]
```

This is because the outer loop iterates over the first level of lists, the inner loop iterates over the second level of lists, and the print statement prints the third level of lists.

--------
