
# Post \#71279525 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71279525/)

## How to increment index in Python loop

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 4935 (524/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-288

Created at 2022-02-26 19:04:40

Tags: `python` `list` `loops` `iteration` `indices`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am wanting to loop through a string and capture 2 items each time while also incrementing through the index of the iterable. So I want to slice 2 items but increase the index by 1 every time through the loop. How can I do this?
my_string = 'teststring'
desired output =
te
es
st
ts
st
tr
ri
in
ng
I have tried the following to slice the two items, but can't figure out the best way to iterate thought the index
```
str1 = 'teststring'
i=0
while i<10: 
    i +=1
    str2=str1[0:2]
    print(str2)
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use a for loop and increment the index by 1 each time through the loop. Here's an example:

```
my_string = 'teststring'

for i in range(len(my_string)-1):
    print(my_string[i:i+2])
```

This will output:

```
te
es
st
ts
st
tr
ri
in
ng
``` 

In this example, we use the `range()` function to loop through the indices of the string. We subtract 1 from the length of the string because we want to stop the loop before the last character (since we're slicing 2 characters at a time). 

Then, we use string slicing to get the two characters at the current index and the next index (`my_string[i:i+2]`). We print this out for each iteration of the loop.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use a for loop and increment the index by 1 each time through the loop. Here's an example:

```
my_string = 'teststring'
for i in range(len(my_string)-1):
    print(my_string[i:i+2])
```

This will output:

```
te
es
st
ts
st
tr
ri
in
ng
``` 

In this example, we use the `range()` function to generate a sequence of numbers from 0 to the length of the string minus 1. We then use this sequence to iterate through the string, slicing two characters at a time using the current index `i` and `i+2`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use a for loop and step through the string by 1 index each time. Then, you can slice the string to get the desired output. Here's an example:

```
my_string = 'teststring'

for i in range(len(my_string)-1):
    print(my_string[i:i+2])
```

This will output:

```
te
es
st
ts
st
tr
ri
in
ng
``` 

In the for loop, we are iterating through the indices of the string using `range(len(my_string)-1)`. We subtract 1 from the length of the string because we are slicing 2 characters at a time, and we don't want to go out of bounds. 

Then, we slice the string using `my_string[i:i+2]` to get the 2 characters at the current index and the next index. We print this out for each iteration of the loop.

--------
