
# Post \#64127075 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64127075/)

## How to retrieve partial matches from a list of strings

**Vote**: 29 (199/702) **Views**: 32461 (223/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-191

Created at 2020-09-29 20:21:14

Tags: `python` `string` `list` `filter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

For approaches to retrieving partial matches in a  list, go to:
- [How to return a subset of a list that matches a condition?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35101426/how-to-return-a-subset-of-a-list-that-matches-a-condition)- [Python: Find in list](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9542738/python-find-in-list)

---


But if you're looking for how to retrieve partial matches for a list of , you'll find the best approaches concisely explained in the answer below.
[SO: Python list lookup with partial match](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6117318/python-list-lookup-with-partial-match) shows how to return a `bool`, if a `list` contains an element that partially matches (e.g. `begins`, `ends`, or `contains`) a certain string. But how can you , instead of `True` or `False`

### Example:


```
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'three'
```

Here, the approach in the linked question will return `True` using:
```
any(s.startswith(wanted) for s in l)
```

So how can you return the element `'threes'` instead?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use a list comprehension to iterate over the list and check if each element partially matches the `wanted` string using the `in` operator. Then, you can return the first element that matches using the `next()` function with a default value of `None` in case no match is found. Here's an example:

```
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'three'

result = next((s for s in l if wanted in s), None)
print(result)  # 'threes'
```

In this example, the list comprehension `(s for s in l if wanted in s)` will return a generator object that yields each element `s` in `l` that contains the `wanted` string. The `next()` function will then return the first element yielded by the generator, or `None` if the generator is empty (i.e. no match is found).

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use a list comprehension to iterate over the list and check if each element partially matches the `wanted` string. Then, you can use the `next()` function to return the first element that matches the condition. If no element matches, you can return `None` or a default value.

Here's an example code snippet:

```
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'three'

result = next((s for s in l if wanted in s), None)
print(result)  # 'threes'
```

In this code, the `next()` function returns the first element in the list that contains the `wanted` string. If no element matches, it returns `None`. You can also provide a default value as the second argument to `next()`, which will be returned if no element matches the condition. For example:

```
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'four'

result = next((s for s in l if wanted in s), 'Not found')
print(result)  # 'Not found'
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use a list comprehension to filter the elements that partially match the `wanted` string, and then return the first element of the filtered list using the `next()` function. Here's an example:

```
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'three'

matches = [s for s in l if wanted in s]
result = next(iter(matches), None)

print(result)  # 'threes'
```

In this example, the list comprehension `[s for s in l if wanted in s]` filters the elements of `l` that contain the `wanted` string, resulting in `['threes']`. The `next()` function returns the first element of the filtered list, which is `'threes'`. If there are no matches, `next()` returns `None`.

--------
