
# Post \#58386953 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58386953/)

## pip3 "TypeError: 'module' object is not callable" after update

**Vote**: 47 (131/702) **Views**: 19695 (307/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-262

Created at 2019-10-15 03:45:40

Tags: `python` `ubuntu` `pip`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am new in Python, I wanna install Jupyter Notebook in my console I enter the following:

```
pip3 install --upgrade pip
```


after that I have a error to use pip3 install other library, the console print: 

```
File "/usr/bin/pip3", line 11, in <module>
    sys.exit(main())
TypeError: 'module' object is not callable
```


I don't know what I have to do. 

I use `sudo autoremove python3-pip` after that I use `sudo apt install python3-pip`


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're seeing is due to a conflict between the pip version installed by your system and the one you've installed/upgraded manually.

Here are the steps to fix this issue:

1. First, uninstall pip3:
    ```
    sudo apt-get remove python3-pip
    sudo apt-get autoremove
    ```

2. Then, reinstall pip3:
    ```
    sudo apt-get install python3-pip
    ```

3. After that, check the version of pip3:
    ```
    pip3 --version
    ```
    It should show the version of pip installed.

4. Now, you can install Jupyter Notebook:
    ```
    pip3 install jupyter
    ```

5. To run Jupyter Notebook, use the following command:
    ```
    jupyter notebook
    ```

Remember, you should not use `sudo` with `pip3 install` because it can lead to permission and environment issues. If you encounter permission errors, it's better to use a virtual environment or use the `--user` option with pip3 install.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're seeing is because the pip3 executable is trying to call a module that has been upgraded and is no longer callable in the way it expects.

The steps you've taken to remove and reinstall pip3 should have resolved the issue. After doing so, you should be able to use pip3 to install other libraries.

If you're still having issues, you can try installing pip for your local user only, which can help avoid conflicts with system packages. You can do this with the following command:

```
python3 -m pip install --user --upgrade pip
```

After that, you can install Jupyter Notebook using the following command:

```
python3 -m pip install --user jupyter
```

This will install Jupyter Notebook for your local user only, which should help avoid any conflicts with system packages.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems like you have a problem with your pip3 installation. The error message `'module' object is not callable` usually indicates that you're trying to call a module as if it were a function.

Here are the steps to reinstall pip3:

1. First, uninstall pip3:
```
sudo apt-get remove python3-pip
```

2. Then, reinstall pip3:
```
sudo apt-get install python3-pip
```

After reinstalling pip3, you should be able to install Jupyter Notebook with the following command:

```
pip3 install jupyter
```

If you still encounter the same error, it might be due to multiple versions of Python installed on your system. You can try to use `python3 -m pip install jupyter` instead.

If you're still having trouble, please let me know!

--------
