
# Post \#64314141 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64314141/)

## psycopg2 - ImportError: DLL load failed while importing _psycopg: The operating system cannot run %1

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 15682 (347/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-174

Created at 2020-10-12 08:22:01

Tags: `python` `anaconda` `conda` `psycopg2`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I installed psycopg2 using conda on Windows 10.
[https://anaconda.org/anaconda/psycopg2](https://anaconda.org/anaconda/psycopg2)
I did it in a clean new conda environment (named wr).
I then tried to run this sample app but I am getting this error (see below).
I have no idea what I might be doing wrong because it was all straightforward and I did it in a clean way.
Any ideas how to solve this?
```
import psycopg2
try:
    connection = psycopg2.connect(user = "***",
                                  password = "***",
                                  host = "***",
                                  port = "5432",
                                  database = "***")


    cursor = connection.cursor()
    # Print PostgreSQL Connection properties
    print ( connection.get_dsn_parameters(),"\n")

    # Print PostgreSQL version
    cursor.execute("SELECT version();")
    record = cursor.fetchone()
    print("You are connected to - ", record,"\n")

except (Exception, psycopg2.Error) as error :
    print ("Error while connecting to PostgreSQL", error)
finally:
    #closing database connection.
        if(connection):
            cursor.close()
            connection.close()
            print("PostgreSQL connection is closed")
```

Error in VS code:
```
PS C:\Work\WRR\git\tools\JTunnelTestApp>  cd 'c:\Work\WRR\git\tools\JTunnelTestApp'; & 'C:\Programs\Anaconda3\envs\wr\python.exe' 'c:\Users\petrop01\.vscode\extensions\ms-python.python-2020.9.114305\pythonFiles\lib\python\debugpy\launcher' '56143' '--' 'c:\Work\WRR\git\tools\JTunnelTestApp\main.py'
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "c:\Work\WRR\git\tools\JTunnelTestApp\main.py", line 1, in <module>
    import psycopg2
  File "C:\Programs\Anaconda3\envs\wr\lib\site-packages\psycopg2\__init__.py", line 51, in <module>
    from psycopg2._psycopg import (                     # noqa
ImportError: DLL load failed while importing _psycopg: The operating system cannot run %1.
PS C:\Work\WRR\git\tools\JTunnelTestApp>
```

: Seems they had a bug open for this 2 years ago and they just closed it, ignoring it completely.
[https://github.com/psycopg/psycopg2/issues/734](https://github.com/psycopg/psycopg2/issues/734)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there might be an issue with the installation of psycopg2. One possible solution is to try installing it using pip instead of conda. You can do this by activating your conda environment and running the following command:

```
pip install psycopg2-binary
```

This will install the binary version of psycopg2, which should work without any issues. Once you have installed psycopg2 using pip, try running your sample app again and see if it works.

If you still encounter the same error, you can try uninstalling psycopg2 and reinstalling it using pip. You can do this by running the following commands:

```
conda remove psycopg2
pip install psycopg2-binary
```

This will remove the conda installation of psycopg2 and install the binary version using pip.

If none of these solutions work, you can try installing psycopg2 from source. You can download the source code from the psycopg2 website and follow the installation instructions provided. However, this is a more advanced option and should only be attempted if the other solutions do not work.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like there might be an issue with the installation of psycopg2 on your system. One possible solution is to try installing psycopg2-binary instead of psycopg2. You can do this by running the following command in your conda environment:

```
conda install psycopg2-binary
```

This should install a pre-compiled binary version of psycopg2, which might solve the DLL load error you are seeing.

If that doesn't work, you can try installing psycopg2 using pip instead of conda:

```
pip install psycopg2
```

This will download and install the latest version of psycopg2 from PyPI.

If neither of these solutions work, you might need to investigate further to see if there are any other issues with your system or environment that could be causing the problem.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like there might be an issue with the installation of psycopg2. One possible solution is to try installing it using pip instead of conda. You can do this by activating your conda environment and then running the following command in your terminal:

```
pip install psycopg2-binary
```

This will install the binary version of psycopg2, which should work on Windows.

If that doesn't work, you can try installing the non-binary version of psycopg2 using pip:

```
pip install psycopg2
```

This will install the source code for psycopg2 and will require a C compiler to build, so you may need to install additional dependencies.

If neither of these solutions work, you can try installing psycopg2 using the Windows installer from the official website:

[https://www.psycopg.org/install/](https://www.psycopg.org/install/)

Make sure to select the correct version for your Python installation (e.g. Python 3.8 64-bit).

--------
