
# Post \#58766671 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58766671/)

## Cannot install librosa python, how can I uninstall llvmlite?

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 20702 (298/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-308

Created at 2019-11-08 12:32:26

Tags: `python` `librosa`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have recently tried to install `librosa` on Windows using `pip install librosa`. Nevertheless, this error appears:

> Cannot uninstall 'llvmlite'. It is a distutils installed project and
  thus we cannot accurately determine which files belong to it which
  would lead to only a partial uninstall.

As a solution, I have executed `conda update --all`, and `conda install numba=0.39.0`, without any improvement.

Thank you in advanced.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there is an issue with the `llvmlite` package that is preventing the installation of `librosa`. Here are a few steps you can try to resolve the issue:

1. Try uninstalling `llvmlite` using `pip uninstall llvmlite` and then install `librosa` again using `pip install librosa`.

2. If the above step doesn't work, try installing `librosa` using conda instead of pip. You can do this by running `conda install -c conda-forge librosa`.

3. If the above steps don't work, you can try creating a new conda environment and installing `librosa` in that environment. To create a new environment, run `conda create --name myenv` where `myenv` is the name of your new environment. Then activate the environment using `conda activate myenv` and install `librosa` using `conda install -c conda-forge librosa`.

4. If none of the above steps work, you can try updating your conda installation using `conda update conda` and then try installing `librosa` again.

I hope one of these steps helps you resolve the issue. Let me know if you have any further questions or concerns.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like there is a conflict with the `llvmlite` package that is preventing `librosa` from being installed. One solution you can try is to uninstall `llvmlite` using the following command:

```
pip uninstall llvmlite
```

After that, try installing `librosa` again using `pip install librosa`. If the installation is successful, you can then reinstall `llvmlite` using `pip install llvmlite`.

If this doesn't work, you can try creating a new virtual environment and installing `librosa` there. Sometimes, conflicts between packages can be resolved by isolating them in a separate environment. Here's how you can create a new virtual environment:

1. Open the Anaconda Prompt or your terminal.
2. Type the following command to create a new environment:

   ```
   conda create --name myenv
   ```

   Replace `myenv` with the name you want to give your environment.
3. Activate the new environment by typing:

   ```
   conda activate myenv
   ```

   Again, replace `myenv` with the name of your environment.
4. Install `librosa` using `pip install librosa`.
5. If the installation is successful, you can then use `conda install` to install any other packages you need in this environment.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like there is an issue with the `llvmlite` package that is preventing the installation of `librosa`. Here are a few steps you can try to resolve the issue:

1. Try uninstalling `llvmlite` using `pip uninstall llvmlite`. If it fails, try using `pip uninstall llvmlite --ignore-installed`.

2. If step 1 doesn't work, try installing `llvmlite` using conda instead of pip. You can do this by running `conda install llvmlite`.

3. If step 2 doesn't work, try creating a new conda environment and installing `librosa` in that environment. You can create a new environment using `conda create --name myenv` and activate it using `conda activate myenv`. Then, try installing `librosa` using `pip install librosa`.

4. If none of the above steps work, you can try installing `librosa` from a pre-built binary. You can download the binary from the official `librosa` website and install it using `pip install path/to/librosa.whl`.

I hope one of these steps helps you resolve the issue and install `librosa` successfully.

--------
