
# Post \#59827464 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59827464/)

## how to fill a Pandas dataframe column with a list containing string values

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 15399 (353/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-197

Created at 2020-01-20 16:32:23

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `pandas` `numpy`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a dataframe with 142 rows.
I have created a new column. I want to fill this new column with a list containing strings.

```
my_list = ['abc','def','hig']
df['names'] = df['names'].fill(my_list) #pseudo code
```


I want to fill all the 142 rows in 'names' column with string values in the list in the same order. 

```
The output should be as:   

     names
   1 abc
   2 def
   3 hig
   4 abc
   5 def
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can achieve this by using the itertools.cycle function which returns an iterator that produces elements from the iterable until it is exhausted, then repeats the sequence indefinitely.

Here is how you can do it:

```python
import itertools

my_list = ['abc','def','hig']
df['names'] = list(itertools.islice(itertools.cycle(my_list), len(df)))
```

This code will fill the 'names' column with the values in 'my_list' in the same order, repeating the list until all rows in the dataframe are filled.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can achieve this by using the itertools.cycle function. This function returns an iterator that produces elements from the iterable until it is exhausted. Then it repeats the sequence indefinitely.

Here is how you can do it:

```python
import itertools

my_list = ['abc','def','hig']
df['names'] = list(itertools.islice(itertools.cycle(my_list), len(df)))
```

In this code, itertools.cycle(my_list) creates an infinite iterator cycling over my_list. itertools.islice(itertools.cycle(my_list), len(df)) takes the first len(df) elements from this infinite iterator, effectively repeating the list until it fills the dataframe.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can achieve this by using the itertools.cycle function which returns an iterator that produces elements from the iterable until it is exhausted, then repeats the sequence indefinitely. Here is how you can do it:

```python
import itertools

my_list = ['abc','def','hig']
df['names'] = list(itertools.islice(itertools.cycle(my_list), len(df)))
```

In this code, itertools.cycle(my_list) creates an infinite iterator cycling over my_list. itertools.islice() then takes the first len(df) elements from this infinite iterator, effectively repeating the list until it fills the length of the dataframe.

--------
