
# Post \#65318382 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65318382/)

## Expected browser binary location, but unable to find binary in default location, no 'moz:firefoxOptions.binary' capability provided using GeckoDriver

**Vote**: 34 (179/702) **Views**: 78437 (107/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-193

Created at 2020-12-16 06:35:45

Tags: `python` `selenium` `selenium-webdriver` `firefox` `geckodriver`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
from selenium import webdriver;
browser= webdriver.Firefox();
browser.get('http://www.seleniumhq.org');
```

When I try to run this code, it gives me an `error message`:
```
Expected browser binary location, but unable to find binary in default location, no 'moz:firefoxOptions.binary' capability provided, and no binary flag set on the command line.
```

Any thoughts-highly appreciated!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error message indicates that the Firefox browser binary is not found in the default location. To resolve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Check if Firefox is installed on your system. If not, download and install it.

2. If Firefox is already installed, try specifying the path to the Firefox binary in the code. You can do this by adding the following line of code before `browser= webdriver.Firefox();`:

   ```
   from selenium.webdriver.firefox.options import Options
   firefox_options = Options()
   firefox_options.binary_location = '/path/to/firefox/binary'
   browser = webdriver.Firefox(firefox_options=firefox_options)
   ```

   Replace `/path/to/firefox/binary` with the actual path to the Firefox binary on your system.

3. If the above steps do not work, try updating your Firefox browser and Selenium package to the latest version.

I hope this helps!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that the Firefox browser binary location is not set or cannot be found. You can try specifying the path to the Firefox binary using the `executable_path` parameter when creating the `webdriver.Firefox()` instance. Here's an example:

```
from selenium import webdriver
browser = webdriver.Firefox(executable_path='/path/to/firefox/binary')
browser.get('http://www.seleniumhq.org')
```

Make sure to replace `/path/to/firefox/binary` with the actual path to the Firefox binary on your system. If you don't know the path, you can try searching for it or installing Firefox if it's not already installed.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message indicates that the Firefox browser binary location is not set or not found in the default location. To fix this issue, you can try the following solutions:

1. Install Firefox browser on your system if it is not already installed.

2. Set the Firefox binary location in your code using the `executable_path` parameter as shown below:

```
from selenium import webdriver
browser = webdriver.Firefox(executable_path='/path/to/geckodriver')
browser.get('http://www.seleniumhq.org')
```

Note: You need to download the geckodriver executable and provide its path in the `executable_path` parameter.

3. Add the Firefox binary location to the system PATH environment variable.

4. If you are using a virtual environment, make sure to activate it before running the code.

I hope this helps!

--------
