
# Post \#71279525 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71279525/)

## How to increment index in Python loop

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 4935 (524/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-288

Created at 2022-02-26 19:04:40

Tags: `python` `list` `loops` `iteration` `indices`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am wanting to loop through a string and capture 2 items each time while also incrementing through the index of the iterable. So I want to slice 2 items but increase the index by 1 every time through the loop. How can I do this?
my_string = 'teststring'
desired output =
te
es
st
ts
st
tr
ri
in
ng
I have tried the following to slice the two items, but can't figure out the best way to iterate thought the index
```
str1 = 'teststring'
i=0
while i<10: 
    i +=1
    str2=str1[0:2]
    print(str2)
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You're on the right track, but you need to use the variable `i` to slice the string. In your current code, you're always slicing the string from index 0 to 2, which is why you're not getting the desired output. Here's how you can modify your code:

```python
str1 = 'teststring'
i = 0
while i < len(str1) - 1:  # subtract 1 to avoid index out of range error
    str2 = str1[i:i+2]
    print(str2)
    i += 1
```

This code will start at the first character of the string, slice out two characters, print them, and then move to the next character. It will continue this until it has printed all pairs of characters in the string.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You are on the right track, but you need to use the variable `i` to slice the string. In your code, you are always slicing the string from index 0 to 2, which is why you are not getting the desired output. Here's how you can modify your code to get the desired output:

```python
str1 = 'teststring'
i = 0
while i < len(str1) - 1:  # subtract 1 because we're taking 2 characters at a time
    str2 = str1[i:i+2]
    print(str2)
    i += 1
```

This code will start at the first character of the string, take two characters, print them, and then move to the next character. It will continue this process until it has gone through the entire string.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You were on the right track, but you need to use the variable `i` to slice the string. Here is the corrected code:

```python
str1 = 'teststring'
for i in range(len(str1)-1): 
    str2 = str1[i:i+2]
    print(str2)
```

This code will start at the beginning of the string and take a slice of length 2, then move one character over and take another slice of length 2, and so on until it reaches the end of the string. The `range(len(str1)-1)` is used to prevent an out of range error, as we're taking slices of 2 characters at a time.

--------
