
# Post \#54760850 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54760850/)

## Replace all newline characters using python

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 48914 (167/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-300

Created at 2019-02-19 07:30:54

Tags: `python` `python-3.x`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to read a pdf using python and the content has many newline (crlf) characters. I tried removing them using below code:

```
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = content.replace("\r\n", "")
print(content)
```


But the output remains unchanged. I tried using double backslashes also which didn't fix the issue. can someone please advise?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Instead of using `replace()` method, you can try using the `splitlines()` method to split the content into lines and then join them back without the newline characters. Here's an example:

```
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = ''.join(content.splitlines())
print(content)
```

This should remove all the newline characters from the content.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Instead of using `replace()` function, you can try using `splitlines()` function to split the content by newline characters and then join them using an empty string. Here's an updated code snippet:

```
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = ''.join(content.splitlines())
print(content)
```

This should remove all the newline characters from the content.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The issue might be that the newline characters in the PDF file are not actually "\r\n" but some other character sequence. You can try using regular expressions to remove all types of newline characters. Here's an example:

```
import re
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = re.sub(r'\s+', ' ', content)
print(content)
```

This code uses the `re` module to replace all whitespace characters (including newline characters) with a single space. This should remove all types of newline characters from the content.

--------
