
# Post \#45554008 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45554008/)

## Error in Python script "Expected 2D array, got 1D array instead:"?

**Vote**: 115 (47/702) **Views**: 367442 (14/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-264

Created at 2017-08-07 19:02:14

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `machine-learning` `predict`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm following [this tutorial](https://pythonprogramming.net/linear-svc-example-scikit-learn-svm-python) to make this ML prediction:

```
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from matplotlib import style

style.use("ggplot")
from sklearn import svm

x = [1, 5, 1.5, 8, 1, 9]
y = [2, 8, 1.8, 8, 0.6, 11]

plt.scatter(x,y)
plt.show()

X = np.array([[1,2],
             [5,8],
             [1.5,1.8],
             [8,8],
             [1,0.6],
             [9,11]])

y = [0,1,0,1,0,1]
X.reshape(1, -1)

clf = svm.SVC(kernel='linear', C = 1.0)
clf.fit(X,y)

print(clf.predict([0.58,0.76]))
```


I'm using Python 3.6 and I get error "Expected 2D array, got 1D array instead:"
I think the script is for older versions, but I don't know how to convert it to the 3.6 version.

Already try with the:

```
X.reshape(1, -1)
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is because the `clf.predict()` function expects a 2D array, but you're providing a 1D array. 

In your case, you are trying to predict the class of a single sample with features `[0.58,0.76]`. You should reshape this array to have a shape of `(1, -1)`, which means we have 1 sample and -1 is inferred from the length of the array.

Here's how you can fix it:

```python
print(clf.predict([[0.58,0.76]]))  # wrap your array inside another array to make it 2D
```

or

```python
print(clf.predict(np.array([0.58,0.76]).reshape(1, -1)))
```

Both of these will convert your 1D array into a 2D array, which is what the `predict()` function expects.

Also, the line `X.reshape(1, -1)` in your code doesn't do anything because you're not assigning the reshaped array back to `X`. If you want to reshape `X`, you should do `X = X.reshape(1, -1)`. However, in this case, you don't need to reshape `X`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error is because the `predict` method expects a 2D array, but you're providing a 1D array. 

In your case, you're trying to predict the class of a single sample that has two features (0.58 and 0.76). You should pass this sample as a 2D array where the first dimension corresponds to the samples and the second to the features.

You can fix this by putting the input to `predict` in an extra pair of brackets to make it a 2D array:

```python
print(clf.predict([[0.58,0.76]]))
```

This way, you're passing a 2D array with one row (corresponding to one sample) and two columns (corresponding to two features).

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error is because the `predict` method expects a 2D array, but you're providing a 1D array. In your case, you're trying to predict the class for one sample, so you need to reshape your array to have a shape of (1, -1).

You should change your prediction line from:

```python
print(clf.predict([0.58,0.76]))
```

to:

```python
print(clf.predict([[0.58,0.76]]))
```

This will make your array 2D, with one row and two columns, which is the expected input for the `predict` method. The outer brackets denote a new dimension in the array.

--------
