
# Post \#64127075 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64127075/)

## How to retrieve partial matches from a list of strings

**Vote**: 29 (199/702) **Views**: 32461 (223/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-191

Created at 2020-09-29 20:21:14

Tags: `python` `string` `list` `filter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

For approaches to retrieving partial matches in a  list, go to:
- [How to return a subset of a list that matches a condition?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35101426/how-to-return-a-subset-of-a-list-that-matches-a-condition)- [Python: Find in list](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9542738/python-find-in-list)

---


But if you're looking for how to retrieve partial matches for a list of , you'll find the best approaches concisely explained in the answer below.
[SO: Python list lookup with partial match](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6117318/python-list-lookup-with-partial-match) shows how to return a `bool`, if a `list` contains an element that partially matches (e.g. `begins`, `ends`, or `contains`) a certain string. But how can you , instead of `True` or `False`

### Example:


```
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'three'
```

Here, the approach in the linked question will return `True` using:
```
any(s.startswith(wanted) for s in l)
```

So how can you return the element `'threes'` instead?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use a list comprehension to return the elements that partially match the string. Here's how you can do it:

```python
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'three'

matching = [s for s in l if s.startswith(wanted)]
```

In this case, `matching` will be `['threes']`. If there are multiple elements that match the condition, they will all be included in the list. If no elements match, `matching` will be an empty list.

This approach can be easily modified to match other conditions. For example, to match elements that end with the string, you can use `s.endswith(wanted)`. To match elements that contain the string anywhere, you can use `wanted in s`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can achieve this by using a list comprehension to create a new list of elements that match the condition, and then return the first element of this new list. Here's how you can do it:

```python
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'three'

matches = [s for s in l if s.startswith(wanted)]
if matches:
    print(matches[0])  # prints 'threes'
else:
    print("No match found")
```

In this code, `matches` is a new list that contains all elements from `l` that start with the string stored in `wanted`. If `matches` is not empty, the first element is printed. Otherwise, a message is printed indicating that no match was found.

This will return the first match it finds. If you want all matches, you can simply print the `matches` list:

```python
if matches:
    print(matches)  # prints ['threes']
else:
    print("No match found")
```

This will give you all elements in the list that start with the string in `wanted`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use a list comprehension to return the matching elements instead of a boolean value. Here's how you can do it:

```python
l = ['ones', 'twos', 'threes']
wanted = 'three'

matches = [s for s in l if s.startswith(wanted)]
```

In this example, `matches` will be a list containing all elements in `l` that start with the string `wanted`. If you only want the first match, you can use `next` with a generator expression:

```python
match = next((s for s in l if s.startswith(wanted)), None)
```

In this case, `match` will be the first element in `l` that starts with `wanted`, or `None` if there are no matches.

--------
