
# Post \#66935418 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66935418/)

## Disable Jedi linting for Python in Visual Studio Code

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 4838 (526/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-236

Created at 2021-04-03 20:05:02

Tags: `python` `visual-studio-code` `jedi`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have set my linter for Python to Pylint, but I still get error messages from Jedi. I even went to settings.json and added the line `"python.linting.jediEnabled": false`, but the line, though present, is greyed out. What more can I do?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

If you have already disabled Jedi in your settings.json file but it is still showing error messages, you may need to check if there are any other extensions or settings that are conflicting with your linter. 

Here are some steps you can take to troubleshoot the issue:

1. Check if there are any other extensions installed that may be using Jedi. You can do this by going to the Extensions tab in VS Code and searching for "Jedi". If there are any extensions that use Jedi, try disabling them and see if that resolves the issue.

2. Check if there are any other settings that may be conflicting with your linter. You can do this by going to the Settings tab in VS Code and searching for "python.linting". Look for any settings that may be overriding your linter settings and try disabling them.

3. Try restarting VS Code after making any changes to your settings.json file or disabling conflicting extensions. This may help to refresh the settings and resolve any conflicts.

If none of these steps resolve the issue, you may need to consider using a different linter or seeking further assistance from the VS Code community.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

If the `"python.linting.jediEnabled": false` line is greyed out in your settings.json file, it means that the setting is being overridden by another setting. 

To find out which setting is overriding it, you can try the following steps:

1. Open the Command Palette by pressing `Ctrl+Shift+P` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+Shift+P` (macOS).
2. Type in "Preferences: Open User Settings" and select it.
3. In the search bar, type in "jediEnabled" to filter the settings.
4. Look for any settings that have "jediEnabled" set to `true` and try setting them to `false`.
5. Save the settings file and restart Visual Studio Code.

If you still can't disable Jedi, you can try disabling it globally by adding the following line to your settings.json file:

```
"python.jediEnabled": false
```

This should disable Jedi for all Python projects in Visual Studio Code.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

If the `"python.linting.jediEnabled": false` line is greyed out, it means that it is being overridden by another setting. You can try adding the following line to your settings.json file to completely disable Jedi:

```
"python.jediEnabled": false
```

If that doesn't work, you can try disabling Jedi in your virtual environment by adding the following line to your activate script:

```
export JEDI_SKIP_LOOKUP="true"
```

If you're using a conda environment, you can disable Jedi by running the following command:

```
conda config --set jedi_enabled false
```

After making any changes, be sure to restart your editor for the changes to take effect.

--------
