
# Post \#60739653 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60739653/)

## Gdown is giving Permission error for particular file,although it is opening up fine manually

**Vote**: 23 (239/702) **Views**: 22444 (279/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-189

Created at 2020-03-18 12:31:53

Tags: `python` `google-drive-api`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am not able to download file using gdown package.It is giving permission error.
But when i am opening it manually.It is giving no such error and opening up fine.
Here is the code i am using and link

```
import gdown
url='https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B1lRQVLFjBRNR3Jqam1menVtZnc'
output='letter.pdf'
gdown.download(url, output, quiet=False)
```


Error is 
Permission denied: [https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B1lRQVLFjBRNR3Jqam1menVtZnc](https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B1lRQVLFjBRNR3Jqam1menVtZnc)
Maybe you need to change permission over 'Anyone with the link'?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the file you are trying to download requires permission to access. You can try changing the sharing settings of the file to "Anyone with the link can view" or "Public" to allow access to the file without requiring permission. 

Alternatively, you can try using the Google Drive API to download the file programmatically. Here's an example code snippet that you can use:

```
import requests

url = 'https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B1lRQVLFjBRNR3Jqam1menVtZnc'
response = requests.get(url)
with open('letter.pdf', 'wb') as f:
    f.write(response.content)
```

This code uses the requests library to download the file directly from the URL. Make sure to install the requests library before running the code by running `pip install requests` in your terminal.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the file you are trying to download requires permission to access. You can try changing the sharing settings of the file to "Anyone with the link can view" or "Public" to allow access to the file without requiring permission. 

To change the sharing settings, follow these steps:
1. Go to your Google Drive and find the file you want to share.
2. Right-click on the file and select "Share".
3. In the "Share with people and groups" window, click on "Get link".
4. In the "Link sharing" window, select "Anyone with the link" or "Public" from the dropdown menu.
5. Click on "Done" to save the changes.

Once you have changed the sharing settings, try running your code again and see if it works.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message suggests that the file you are trying to download requires permission to access. You can try changing the sharing settings of the file to "Anyone with the link can view" or "Anyone with the link can download" to allow access to the file without requiring permission. 

To do this, follow these steps:

1. Open the link to the file in your web browser.
2. Click on the "Share" button in the top right corner of the screen.
3. In the "Share with people and groups" section, click on "Change" next to "Private - Only you can access".
4. Select "Anyone with the link" and choose the appropriate permission level (view or download).
5. Click on "Save" to apply the changes.

Once you have changed the sharing settings, try running your code again to download the file.

--------
