
# Post \#63732353 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63732353/)

## ERROR: Could not build wheels for opencv-python which use PEP 517 and cannot be installed directly

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 77017 (110/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-255

Created at 2020-09-03 22:15:17

Tags: `python` `docker` `opencv` `cmake` `nvidia-jetson-nano`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was trying to install OpenCV4 in a docker on jetson nano. It has jetpack 4.4 s os. The docker was successfully created and Tensorflow is running but while installing OpenCV using pip it is showing CMake error.
```
root@5abf405fb92d:~# pip3 install opencv-python
Collecting opencv-python
  Downloading opencv-python-4.4.0.42.tar.gz (88.9 MB)
     |████████████████████████████████| 88.9 MB 2.5 kB/s 
  Installing build dependencies ... done
  Getting requirements to build wheel ... done
    Preparing wheel metadata ... done
Requirement already satisfied: numpy>=1.13.3 in /usr/local/lib/python3.6/dist-packages (from opencv-python) (1.18.4)
Building wheels for collected packages: opencv-python
  Building wheel for opencv-python (PEP 517) ... error
  ERROR: Command errored out with exit status 1:
   command: /usr/bin/python3 /usr/local/lib/python3.6/dist-packages/pip/_vendor/pep517/_in_process.py build_wheel /tmp/tmpqpzwrofy
       cwd: /tmp/pip-install-93nxibky/opencv-python
  Complete output (9 lines):
    File "/tmp/pip-build-env-o_hualnr/overlay/lib/python3.6/site-packages/skbuild/setuptools_wrap.py", line 560, in setup
      cmkr = cmaker.CMaker(cmake_executable)
    File "/tmp/pip-build-env-o_hualnr/overlay/lib/python3.6/site-packages/skbuild/cmaker.py", line 95, in __init__
      self.cmake_version = get_cmake_version(self.cmake_executable)
    File "/tmp/pip-build-env-o_hualnr/overlay/lib/python3.6/site-packages/skbuild/cmaker.py", line 82, in get_cmake_version
      "Problem with the CMake installation, aborting build. CMake executable is %s" % cmake_executable)
  Traceback (most recent call last):
  
  Problem with the CMake installation, aborting build. CMake executable is cmake
  ----------------------------------------
  ERROR: Failed building wheel for opencv-python
Failed to build opencv-python
ERROR: Could not build wheels for opencv-python which use PEP 517 and cannot be installed directly
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that there is a problem with the CMake installation. CMake is a tool that helps in managing the build process of software using compiler-independent methods. It is required to build OpenCV from source.

Here are some steps you can follow to resolve this issue:

1. First, make sure that CMake is installed in your Docker container. You can check this by running the command `cmake --version`. If CMake is not installed, you can install it using the command `apt-get install cmake`.

2. If CMake is already installed, it might be that the version of CMake is not compatible with the version of OpenCV you are trying to install. You can try to update CMake to the latest version using the command `apt-get upgrade cmake`.

3. If the problem persists, it might be that the pip package `opencv-python` is not compatible with the Jetson Nano. In this case, you can try to build OpenCV from source. Here are the general steps to do this:

   - Install the required dependencies: `apt-get install build-essential libgtk2.0-dev libvtk5-dev libjpeg-dev libtiff5-dev libjasper-dev libopenexr-dev libtbb-dev`
   - Download the OpenCV source code from the [official GitHub repository](https://github.com/opencv/opencv).
   - Create a build directory and navigate into it: `mkdir build && cd build`
   - Run CMake to configure the build: `cmake ../`
   - Build OpenCV: `make -j$(nproc)`
   - Install OpenCV: `make install`

Please replace the commands with the appropriate ones for your specific OS and environment.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that there is a problem with the CMake installation. CMake is a tool that helps in managing the build process of software using compiler-independent methods. It is required for building OpenCV from source.

Here are a few steps you can take to resolve this issue:

1. **Check if CMake is installed**: You can do this by running the command `cmake --version` in your terminal. If CMake is installed, this command will return the version of CMake that is currently installed on your system.

2. **Install/Update CMake**: If CMake is not installed or if it's outdated, you can install/update it using the following commands:

   - For Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install cmake`
   - For CentOS: `sudo yum install cmake`

3. **Install OpenCV from source**: If the issue persists even after ensuring that CMake is installed and up-to-date, you might want to consider installing OpenCV from source instead of using pip. Here is a general guide on how to do this:

   - First, clone the OpenCV repository: `git clone https://github.com/opencv/opencv.git`
   - Then, navigate to the cloned directory: `cd opencv`
   - Create a new directory for the build: `mkdir build && cd build`
   - Run CMake to configure the build. This might look something like this: `cmake -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RELEASE -D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local ..`
   - Finally, compile and install OpenCV: `make -j4 && sudo make install`

Please note that the above commands are general guidelines and might need to be adapted to your specific situation. Also, building OpenCV from source can take a significant amount of time, especially on devices with limited computational resources like the Jetson Nano.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that there is a problem with the CMake installation. The OpenCV Python package is trying to build from source, which requires CMake. 

Here are some steps you can try:

1. Install CMake in your Docker container. You can do this by adding the following line to your Dockerfile:

```Dockerfile
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y cmake
```

Then, rebuild your Docker image and try again.

2. If you still encounter the same issue, it might be due to the fact that OpenCV Python wheels are not available for ARM architecture, which is used by Jetson Nano. In this case, you will need to build OpenCV from source. Here is a general outline of the steps you need to follow:

- Install the necessary dependencies:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install -y build-essential cmake git libgtk2.0-dev pkg-config libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev
```

- Clone the OpenCV repository:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/opencv/opencv.git
$ cd opencv
$ git checkout 4.4.0
```

- Create a build directory and run CMake:

```bash
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local ..
```

- Build and install OpenCV:

```bash
$ make -j$(nproc)
$ sudo make install
```

Please note that building OpenCV from source can take a long time and requires a lot of resources. You might need to increase the resources available to your Docker container.

--------
