
# Post \#48647534 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48647534/)

## Find difference between two data frames

**Vote**: 237 (11/702) **Views**: 359941 (15/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-240

Created at 2018-02-06 16:25:41

Tags: `python` `pandas` `dataframe`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have two data frames df1 and df2, where df2 is a subset of df1. How do I get a new data frame (df3) which is the difference between the two data frames?

In other word, a data frame that has all the rows/columns in df1 that are not in df2?

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/aOCGb.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can achieve this by using the `merge` function with the `indicator=True` option, which adds a special column `_merge` that can take two values: 'both' if the row is in both dataframes, 'left_only' if the row is only in the left dataframe, and 'right_only' if the row is only in the right dataframe. 

Here is a sample code:

```python
df3 = df1.merge(df2, how='outer', indicator=True)
df3 = df3[df3['_merge'] == 'left_only']
```

This will give you a dataframe that contains only the rows that are in `df1` but not in `df2`.

If you want to drop the `_merge` column afterwards, you can do so with:

```python
df3.drop(columns=['_merge'], inplace=True)
```

Please note that this assumes that `df1` and `df2` have the same columns. If they don't, you'll need to specify which columns to use for the merge.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `merge` function with the `indicator` argument set to `True`. This will add a new column to the merged DataFrame called `_merge` that can take two values: `both` if the row is in both dataframes, `left_only` if the row is only in the left dataframe, and `right_only` if the row is only in the right dataframe. 

Then, you can filter the rows where `_merge` is `left_only` to get the rows that are in `df1` but not in `df2`.

Here is an example:

```python
df3 = df1.merge(df2, how='outer', indicator=True)
df3 = df3[df3['_merge'] == 'left_only']
```

This will give you a DataFrame `df3` that contains only the rows that are in `df1` but not in `df2`.

If you want to drop the `_merge` column, you can do so with the `drop` function:

```python
df3 = df3.drop(columns=['_merge'])
```

Note: This assumes that `df1` and `df2` have the same columns. If they don't, you need to specify which columns to use for the merge in the `on` argument of the `merge` function.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `merge` function in pandas with the `indicator=True` option, which adds a column to the output data frame called `_merge` that can take two values: `both` if the row is in both data frames, `left_only` if the row is only in the left data frame, and `right_only` if the row is only in the right data frame.

Here is an example:

```python
df3 = df1.merge(df2, how='outer', indicator=True)
df3 = df3[df3['_merge'] == 'left_only']
```

In this case, `df3` will contain only the rows that are in `df1` but not in `df2`.

If you want to drop the `_merge` column afterwards, you can do so with the `drop` function:

```python
df3 = df3.drop(columns=['_merge'])
```

This will give you the data frame that contains only the rows from `df1` that are not in `df2`.

Please note that this will work as expected if the data frames have the same columns and the rows are considered identical if all their columns have the same values. If your data frames have different columns or you want to consider only some columns to determine if a row is in both data frames, you will need to adjust this code accordingly.

--------
