
# Post \#64155277 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64155277/)

## Errno - 13 Permission denied: '/media/ - Django

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 7824 (468/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-279

Created at 2020-10-01 12:20:02

Tags: `python` `django` `ubuntu` `django-models` `permission-denied`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using Django 3.1 in ubuntu,
I got an error while uploading media files
```
PermissionError at /admin/main/artist/1/change/
[Errno 13] Permission denied: '/media/artists'

Exception Type: PermissionError
Exception Value:    
[Errno 13] Permission denied: '/media/artists'
Exception Location: /usr/lib/python3.8/os.py, line 223, in makedirs
Python Executable:  /home/rahul/.local/share/virtualenvs/music-69qL54Ia/bin/python
```

This code works in windows, but not in ubuntu
Settings.py
```
STATIC_URL = '/static/'
STATICFILES_DIRS = [BASE_DIR / 'static']

MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
MEDIA_ROOT = BASE_DIR / '/media/'
```

Models.py
```
class Artist(models.Model):
    image = models.ImageField(upload_to='artists/%Y/%m/%d/', default='demo-artist.jpg', null=True, blank=True)
```

I tried this but didn't work
```
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21797372/django-errno-13-permission-denied-var-www-media-animals-user-uploads
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that the user running the Django application does not have the necessary permissions to create the `/media/artists` directory. 

To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Check the owner and permissions of the `/media` directory and make sure that the user running the Django application has write permissions to it.

2. Create the `/media/artists` directory manually with the correct permissions. You can use the following command to create the directory with the correct permissions:

   ```
   sudo mkdir /media/artists
   sudo chown -R <username>:<groupname> /media/artists
   sudo chmod -R 775 /media/artists
   ```

   Replace `<username>` and `<groupname>` with the appropriate values for your system.

3. Update the `MEDIA_ROOT` setting in your `settings.py` file to point to the correct directory:

   ```
   MEDIA_ROOT = '/media/'
   ```

   Note that you don't need to include the `/artists` subdirectory in the `MEDIA_ROOT` setting, as it will be automatically created by Django when you upload files.

4. Restart your Django application and try uploading a file again.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the user running the Django application does not have permission to create the `/media/artists` directory. 

To fix this issue, you need to change the ownership of the `/media` directory to the user running the Django application. You can do this by running the following command in the terminal:

```
sudo chown -R yourusername:yourusername /media
```

Replace `yourusername` with the username of the user running the Django application.

After changing the ownership, you also need to change the permissions of the `/media` directory to allow the user running the Django application to write to it. You can do this by running the following command:

```
sudo chmod -R 755 /media
```

This will give the owner of the directory (the user running the Django application) read, write, and execute permissions, and everyone else read and execute permissions.

Once you have made these changes, try uploading the media files again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the user running the Django application does not have permission to create the `/media/artists` directory. You can fix this issue by changing the ownership of the `/media` directory to the user running the Django application.

You can use the following command to change the ownership of the `/media` directory to the user running the Django application:

```
sudo chown -R <username>:<username> /media
```

Replace `<username>` with the username of the user running the Django application.

After changing the ownership of the `/media` directory, you can try uploading the media files again.

--------
