
# Post \#70361517 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70361517/)

## Python pandas - ValueError: invalid literal for int() with base 10:

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 4219 (541/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-235

Created at 2021-12-15 09:48:31

Tags: `python` `pandas` `dataframe`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a dataframe with a column named `year` in object format. I want to convert object to int but I have this error :
> ValueError: invalid literal for int() with base 10: '2021.0'
Here is my code :
`data_h_df['year'].astype(str).astype(int)`


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that there are some values in the `year` column that are not valid integers. In this case, it seems that there is at least one value that has a decimal point, which cannot be converted to an integer.

To fix this, you can try converting the column to float first, and then to integer. This will allow the decimal values to be preserved, but will still result in an error if there are any non-numeric values in the column.

Here is an updated code snippet that should work:

```
data_h_df['year'] = data_h_df['year'].astype(float).astype(int)
```

This will first convert the `year` column to a float, and then to an integer. If there are any non-numeric values in the column, this will result in a `ValueError` with a more informative error message.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that there is at least one value in the `year` column that is not a valid integer. In this case, it seems that the value is '2021.0', which cannot be converted to an integer.

To fix this issue, you can try converting the column to float first and then to integer. This will allow the decimal values to be preserved and avoid the error message.

Here is an updated code snippet:

```
data_h_df['year'] = data_h_df['year'].astype(float).astype(int)
```

This should convert the `year` column to integer format without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message suggests that there is a value in the `year` column that is not a valid integer. In this case, it seems like there is a value of '2021.0' which cannot be converted to an integer.

To fix this issue, you can try converting the column to float first and then to integer. This will handle the case where there are decimal values in the column.

Here is the updated code:

```
data_h_df['year'] = data_h_df['year'].astype(float).astype(int)
```

This should convert the `year` column to integer format without any errors.

--------
