
# Post \#58142214 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58142214/)

## To invert colours from black to white in opencv python

**Vote**: 5 (499/702) **Views**: 17184 (332/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-248

Created at 2019-09-27 23:28:17

Tags: `python` `image` `opencv` `image-processing` `image-manipulation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a condition where I want to detect white line incase of black background and black line incase of white background. I used bitwise_not operation something like this:

```
cv2.bitwise_not(mask_black)
```


It is working perfectly until and unless i give a condition like this:

```
if mask_black == cv2.bitwise_not(mask_black):
```


I get an error

> ValueError: The truth value of an array with more than one element is ambiguous. Use a.any() or a.all()

I am having doubts about using conditions where if black background occurs white line is to be detected and if white background occurs black line is to be detected

```
mask_black = cv2.inRange(hsv, low_black, high_black)
mask_not=cv2.bitwise_not(mask_black)

if mask_black==cv2.bitwise_and(mask_black, mask_not):
    body 
else:
    body
```


This is returning the above error


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're seeing is because you're trying to compare two arrays using `==` operator. This operator will return an array of boolean values, not a single boolean value. Therefore, Python doesn't know how to interpret this in an `if` statement.

If you want to check if all values in two arrays are equal, you can use `numpy.array_equal()`:

```python
import numpy as np

if np.array_equal(mask_black, cv2.bitwise_and(mask_black, mask_not)):
    # body 
else:
    # body
```

However, in your case, it seems like you want to check if the mask is either all black or all white. If that's the case, you can use `numpy.all()` or `numpy.any()`:

```python
if np.all(mask_black == 0):  # all black
    # detect white line
elif np.all(mask_black == 255):  # all white
    # detect black line
```

This will check if all values in the mask are either 0 (black) or 255 (white). If you want to check if there are any black or white pixels, you can use `numpy.any()` instead of `numpy.all()`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're seeing is because you're trying to compare two arrays using `==`. This comparison will return an array of boolean values, not a single boolean value. Therefore, Python doesn't know how to interpret this in an `if` statement, which expects a single boolean value.

If you want to check if all values in the arrays are equal, you can use `numpy.array_equal()`:

```python
import numpy as np

if np.array_equal(mask_black, cv2.bitwise_and(mask_black, mask_not)):
    # body
else:
    # body
```

However, it seems like you're trying to check if `mask_black` is the bitwise inverse of itself, which will never be true. The bitwise inverse of an array will always be different from the original array.

If you want to perform different operations based on whether the image is mostly black or mostly white, you could calculate the mean of the `mask_black` array and use that in your condition:

```python
mean = np.mean(mask_black)

if mean > 127:  # adjust this threshold as needed
    # image is mostly white, detect black line
else:
    # image is mostly black, detect white line
```

This will give you a single boolean value that you can use in an `if` statement.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're seeing is because you're trying to compare two arrays using `==`, which results in an array of boolean values (True where the arrays are equal, False where they're not). Python doesn't know how to interpret an array of booleans in an `if` statement, hence the error message.

If you want to check if all elements in the two arrays are equal, you can use `numpy.array_equal()`:

```python
if np.array_equal(mask_black, cv2.bitwise_and(mask_black, mask_not)):
    # body
else:
    # body
```

However, `cv2.bitwise_and(mask_black, mask_not)` will always be an array of zeros (since `mask_not` is the bitwise not of `mask_black`, so they don't have any bits in common), so this condition will only be true if `mask_black` is also an array of zeros.

If you want to check if the mask is all black or all white, you can use `numpy.all()` or `numpy.any()`:

```python
if np.all(mask_black == 0):  # all black
    # body
elif np.all(mask_black == 255):  # all white
    # body
```

If you want to perform different operations depending on whether the image is mostly black or mostly white, you could calculate the mean or median of the mask and use that in your condition:

```python
if np.mean(mask_black) < 128:  # mostly black
    # body
else:  # mostly white
    # body
```

--------
