
# Post \#60839909 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60839909/)

## Errors running Pandas Profile Report

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 21153 (292/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-214

Created at 2020-03-24 21:52:29

Tags: `python` `pandas` `pandas-profiling`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to run a Profile Report for EDA in conda Jupyter NB, but keep getting errors.
Here is my code thus far:

```
import pandas_profiling
    from pandas_profiling import ProfileReport

    profile = ProfileReport(data)
```


and 

```
profile = pandas_profiling.ProfileReport(data)
```


both of which produce:    

> TypeError: concat() got an unexpected keyword argument 'join_axes'  

Research recommended upgrading to Pandas 1.0, which I'm using. 

Also tried

```
data.profile_report()
```


> AttributeError: 'DataFrame' object has no attribute 'profile_report'  

Any tips on where I am going wrong?  

Addendum...So I finally figured it out. Needed to install latest version of pandas-profiling in conda, which was 202003 version. Too easy.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

It seems like you have already figured out the solution to your problem. The issue was due to an outdated version of pandas-profiling. 

For the benefit of others who might encounter the same problem, here's how to update pandas-profiling in conda:

1. Open the Anaconda Prompt or your terminal.
2. Type the following command to update pandas-profiling:

```
conda update pandas-profiling
```

If the package is not found, you might need to install it first using:

```
conda install -c conda-forge pandas-profiling
```

Remember to restart your Jupyter notebook after updating the package. Your code should work as expected after the update. 

Also, the 'profile_report' is a method in pandas-profiling, so you need to make sure that pandas-profiling is correctly installed and imported. 

If you still encounter issues, please provide the full error message for further assistance.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you have already solved your problem by updating the pandas-profiling package to the latest version. The issue was likely due to a compatibility problem between the version of pandas and pandas-profiling you were using.

For future reference, here are some general steps to troubleshoot similar issues:

1. **Check your package versions**: Make sure that the versions of your packages are compatible with each other. You can check the version of a package by using `print(pandas.__version__)` for pandas, and `print(pandas_profiling.__version__)` for pandas-profiling.

2. **Update your packages**: If your packages are not up-to-date, you can update them using pip or conda. For pip, use `pip install --upgrade package-name`. For conda, use `conda update package-name`.

3. **Check the documentation**: The documentation of a package often contains information about which versions of other packages it is compatible with. 

4. **Search for the error message**: If you get an error message, try searching for it online. There's a good chance someone else has had the same problem and found a solution.

5. **Ask for help**: If you can't find a solution, don't hesitate to ask for help. You can ask a question on Stack Overflow, or on the GitHub page of the package.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems like you've already solved your problem, but for future reference or for anyone else who might encounter the same issue, here's a bit more detail:

The error message `TypeError: concat() got an unexpected keyword argument 'join_axes'` is due to a change in the pandas library. The `join_axes` parameter was deprecated in pandas version 0.25.0 and removed in version 1.0.0.

The `pandas_profiling` library uses this parameter, so if you're using a version of `pandas_profiling` that hasn't been updated to reflect this change in pandas, you'll get this error.

The solution, as you've found, is to update `pandas_profiling` to a version that's compatible with your version of pandas. You can do this in conda with the following command:

```
conda install -c conda-forge pandas-profiling
```

This will install the latest version of `pandas_profiling` from the conda-forge channel.

As for the `AttributeError: 'DataFrame' object has no attribute 'profile_report'` error, this is because the `profile_report()` method is added to the DataFrame class by `pandas_profiling`, so if there's an issue with your `pandas_profiling` installation, you'll get this error. Updating `pandas_profiling` should also resolve this issue.

--------
