
# Post \#58766671 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58766671/)

## Cannot install librosa python, how can I uninstall llvmlite?

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 20702 (298/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-308

Created at 2019-11-08 12:32:26

Tags: `python` `librosa`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have recently tried to install `librosa` on Windows using `pip install librosa`. Nevertheless, this error appears:

> Cannot uninstall 'llvmlite'. It is a distutils installed project and
  thus we cannot accurately determine which files belong to it which
  would lead to only a partial uninstall.

As a solution, I have executed `conda update --all`, and `conda install numba=0.39.0`, without any improvement.

Thank you in advanced.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is due to pip trying to uninstall a version of llvmlite that was installed by conda. Pip does not have the permissions to uninstall this package.

Here are a few steps you can try:

1. Create a new conda environment and install librosa in that environment. This will isolate your installation and prevent conflicts with other packages. You can do this with the following commands:

```bash
conda create -n myenv python=3.7
conda activate myenv
pip install librosa
```

2. If you want to install librosa in your base environment, you can try installing it with conda instead of pip:

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge librosa
```

3. If you still want to use pip, you can try to force the installation without dependencies, and then install the dependencies manually:

```bash
pip install --no-deps librosa
```

Then you can install the dependencies one by one. You can find the list of dependencies in the [librosa documentation](https://librosa.org/doc/main/install.html).

Remember to always activate your conda environment before installing any packages.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is due to pip trying to uninstall a version of llvmlite that was installed by conda. Pip doesn't have the ability to uninstall packages installed by conda, hence the error.

Here are a few potential solutions:

1. **Use conda to install librosa**: Since you're already using conda, you can try installing librosa with it instead of pip. You can do this by running `conda install -c conda-forge librosa`. The conda-forge channel often has more up-to-date versions of packages than the default conda channel.

2. **Create a new conda environment**: Sometimes, package conflicts can be resolved by creating a new environment. You can do this with `conda create -n new_env python=3.7`, then activate it with `conda activate new_env`, and finally install librosa with `pip install librosa`.

3. **Ignore installed packages**: You can tell pip to ignore the installed packages and install librosa anyway. This can be done with `pip install --ignore-installed librosa`. However, be aware that this may lead to other issues down the line if other packages depend on the specific version of llvmlite that's currently installed.

4. **Uninstall llvmlite with conda and then install librosa**: First, uninstall llvmlite with `conda uninstall llvmlite`. Then, try installing librosa with `pip install librosa`. This should work if librosa doesn't actually need the specific version of llvmlite that was installed.

Remember to always keep your Python environment clean and try to avoid mixing conda and pip as much as possible to prevent these kinds of issues.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is due to pip trying to uninstall a version of llvmlite that was installed by conda. Pip doesn't have the ability to uninstall packages installed by conda, hence the error.

Here are a few steps you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Create a new conda environment: This is a good practice to avoid conflicts between packages. You can create a new environment with the command `conda create -n myenv python=3.7` (replace `myenv` with the name you want to give to your environment and `3.7` with the Python version you want to use).

2. Activate the environment: Use the command `conda activate myenv` (replace `myenv` with the name of your environment).

3. Install librosa in the new environment: Now that you are in your new environment, you can install librosa with the command `pip install librosa`. Since this is a new environment, you shouldn't have conflicts with other packages.

Remember to replace `myenv` with the name of your environment.

If you still have issues, you can try to install llvmlite manually before installing librosa:

1. Install llvmlite: Use the command `pip install llvmlite`.

2. Install librosa: Use the command `pip install librosa`.

Remember to execute these commands in your new environment.

--------
