
# Post \#69954697 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69954697/)

## Why does .loc assignment with two sets of brackets result in NaN in a pandas.DataFrame?

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 1394 (631/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-241

Created at 2021-11-13 13:27:32

Tags: `python` `pandas` `dataframe` `nan` `series`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a DataFrame:

|  | name | age | 
|  | ---- | --- | 
| 0 | Paul | 25 | 
| 1 | John | 27 | 
| 2 | Bill | 23 | 


I know that if I enter:
> ```
df[['name']] = df[['age']]
```

I'll get the following:

|  | name | age | 
|  | ---- | --- | 
| 0 | 25 | 25 | 
| 1 | 27 | 27 | 
| 2 | 23 | 23 | 


But I expect the  result from the command:
> ```
df.loc[:, ['name']] = df.loc[:, ['age']]
```

But instead, I get this:

|  | name | age | 
|  | ---- | --- | 
| 0 | NaN | 25 | 
| 1 | NaN | 27 | 
| 2 | NaN | 23 | 


For some reason, if I omit those square brackets `[]` around column names, I'll get exactly what I expected. That is the command:
> ```
df.loc[:, 'name'] = df.loc[:, 'age']
```

gives the right result:

|  | name | age | 
|  | ---- | --- | 
| 0 | 25 | 25 | 
| 1 | 27 | 27 | 
| 2 | 23 | 23 | 


`.loc` Is it some sort of a bug or is it intended behaviour? I can't figure out the reason for such a behaviour.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This is actually intended behavior. When you use double square brackets `[[ ]]` to select a column in a DataFrame, it returns a DataFrame with one column, whereas using single square brackets `[ ]` returns a Series. 

So when you use `df[['name']] = df[['age']]`, you are assigning a DataFrame to a DataFrame, which results in the entire column being replaced with NaN values because the shape of the two DataFrames doesn't match.

On the other hand, when you use `df.loc[:, 'name'] = df.loc[:, 'age']`, you are assigning a Series to a Series, which works as expected. 

So, to summarize, if you want to select a single column as a Series, use single square brackets `[ ]`, and if you want to select a single column as a DataFrame, use double square brackets `[[ ]]`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This is actually intended behavior. When you use double square brackets `[[ ]]` to select a column, you are creating a DataFrame with a single column. On the other hand, when you use single square brackets `[ ]`, you are creating a Pandas Series.

When you assign a Pandas Series to a DataFrame column, the values are aligned based on the index of the Series and the DataFrame. In your first example, you are assigning a DataFrame with a single column to another DataFrame column. Since the index of the two DataFrames are different, Pandas cannot align the values and assigns NaN to all the rows.

In your second example, you are assigning a Pandas Series to a DataFrame column. Since both have the same index, the values are aligned correctly and you get the expected result.

So, to summarize, if you want to assign a single column of a DataFrame to another column, use single square brackets `[ ]`. If you want to assign a DataFrame with a single column to another column, use double square brackets `[[ ]]`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The behavior you are seeing is actually intended and not a bug. 

When you use double square brackets `[['name']]` to select a column, you are creating a DataFrame with a single column, whereas using single square brackets `['name']` creates a Series. 

When you assign a DataFrame to a DataFrame, pandas tries to align the columns and rows based on their labels. In your first example, since both `df[['name']]` and `df[['age']]` are DataFrames with a single column, pandas aligns them based on their column labels and assigns the values of `df[['age']]` to `df[['name']]`. 

However, in your second example, when you use `df.loc[:, ['name']]`, you are selecting a DataFrame with a single column, and when you assign `df.loc[:, ['age']]` to it, pandas tries to align the columns and rows based on their labels. Since the column labels don't match, pandas assigns `NaN` values to `df.loc[:, ['name']]`.

On the other hand, when you use `df.loc[:, 'name']`, you are selecting a Series, and when you assign `df.loc[:, 'age']` to it, pandas aligns the rows based on their labels and assigns the values of `df.loc[:, 'age']` to `df.loc[:, 'name']`.

--------
