
# Post \#61802080 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61802080/)

## ExcelWriter ValueError: Excel does not support datetime with timezone when saving df to Excel

**Vote**: 26 (219/702) **Views**: 45754 (178/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-213

Created at 2020-05-14 16:08:42

Tags: `python` `pandas` `xlsxwriter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm running on this issue for quite a while now.

I set the writer as follows:

```
writer = pd.ExcelWriter(arquivo+'.xlsx', engine = 'xlsxwriter', options = {'remove_timezone': True})
df.to_excel(writer, header = True, index = True)
```


This code is inside s function. The problem is every time I run the code, it gets information from the database, which contains two columns datetime64[ns, UTC] object with time zone info. But when the code to save to Excel runs I receive:

```
ValueError: Excel does not support datetimes with timezones. Please ensure that datetimes are timezone unaware before writing to Excel.
```


I have already tried several things like 'dt.tz_convert', replace(tzinfo=None) and other solutions I have found here and around.

The code runs without problem in my personal computer, my colleague at work with the same machine specs can run the code. Only in my machine it doesn't. I already reinstalled python and all the packages, including formatting the machine and nothing, the error persists.

xlrd v1.1.0

xlsxwriter v1.0.4

python 3.7.4

pandas v0.25.1

If someone could bring some light into this issue I would much appreciate it.

Thanks


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the issue is related to the timezone information in your datetime objects. Excel does not support timezone-aware datetimes, so you need to convert them to timezone-naive datetimes before writing to Excel.

Here's a possible solution:

```
# Convert datetime columns to timezone-naive datetimes
df['datetime_column'] = df['datetime_column'].dt.tz_localize(None)

# Write to Excel
writer = pd.ExcelWriter(arquivo+'.xlsx', engine='xlsxwriter', options={'remove_timezone': True})
df.to_excel(writer, header=True, index=True)
```

This code uses the `dt.tz_localize(None)` method to convert the datetime column to timezone-naive datetimes. This should remove the timezone information and allow you to write to Excel without errors.

Make sure to apply this conversion to all datetime columns in your DataFrame before writing to Excel.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the issue is related to the timezone information in your datetime objects. Excel does not support timezone-aware datetime objects, so you need to convert them to timezone-naive datetime objects before writing to Excel.

You mentioned that you have already tried using `dt.tz_convert` and `replace(tzinfo=None)`. However, it's important to make sure that you are applying these methods to the correct columns in your DataFrame.

Here's an example of how you can convert a column of timezone-aware datetime objects to timezone-naive datetime objects:

```
df['datetime_column'] = df['datetime_column'].dt.tz_convert(None)
```

Make sure to replace `'datetime_column'` with the name of the column that contains your datetime objects.

You can also try setting the timezone to UTC before converting to timezone-naive datetime objects:

```
df['datetime_column'] = df['datetime_column'].dt.tz_convert('UTC').dt.tz_localize(None)
```

Once you have converted your datetime objects to timezone-naive datetime objects, you should be able to write them to Excel without any issues.

Let me know if this helps!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the issue is related to the timezone information in your datetime objects. Excel does not support timezone-aware datetimes, so you need to convert them to timezone-naive datetimes before writing to Excel.

Here's one way to do it using the `tz_localize` and `tz_convert` methods from the pandas library:

```
# convert datetime column to timezone-aware datetime objects
df['datetime_column'] = pd.to_datetime(df['datetime_column'], utc=True)

# convert timezone-aware datetime objects to timezone-naive datetime objects
df['datetime_column'] = df['datetime_column'].dt.tz_convert(None).dt.tz_localize(None)

# write dataframe to Excel
writer = pd.ExcelWriter(arquivo+'.xlsx', engine='xlsxwriter', options={'remove_timezone': True})
df.to_excel(writer, header=True, index=True)
writer.save()
```

This should convert your datetime objects to timezone-naive datetimes and allow you to write them to Excel without any issues.

--------
