
# Post \#71311507 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71311507/)

## ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'app' fastapi docker

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 3853 (547/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-245

Created at 2022-03-01 16:15:40

Tags: `python` `docker` `fastapi`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
FROM python:3.8
WORKDIR /app 

COPY requirements.txt /
RUN pip install --requirement /requirements.txt

COPY ./app /app

EXPOSE 8000
CMD ["uvicorn", "app.main:app", "--host=0.0.0.0" , "--reload" , "--port", "8000"]
```

when i used
> 
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'app'
- the folders in Fastapi framework:- fastapi- app-main.py- ```
language_detector.py
```
- Dockerfile- docker-compose


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the Dockerfile is unable to find the `app` module. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure that the `app` folder is in the same directory as the Dockerfile.
2. Check the `COPY` command in the Dockerfile. It should be copying the `app` folder to the `/app` directory in the container. Make sure that the path is correct.
3. Check the `main.py` file in the `app` folder. It should have a `FastAPI` instance named `app`. Make sure that the file is named correctly and has the correct code.
4. Check the `requirements.txt` file. It should list all the required Python packages for the application to run. Make sure that all the packages are listed correctly.

If none of these solutions work, please provide more information about the directory structure and the contents of the files.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the Dockerfile is unable to find the `app` module. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure that the `app` folder is in the same directory as the Dockerfile.
2. Check that the `app` folder contains an `__init__.py` file. This file is required to make the folder a Python module.
3. Verify that the `main.py` file is located in the `app` folder and has the correct name.
4. Check that the `requirements.txt` file is in the root directory and contains all the required dependencies for the `app` module.
5. Ensure that the `docker-compose.yml` file is correctly configured to build and run the Docker container.

If you have verified all of the above and are still experiencing issues, please provide more information about the error message and any other relevant details.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the Dockerfile is unable to find the `app` module. Here are a few things you can check:

1. Make sure that the `app` folder is in the same directory as the Dockerfile. If it is not, you will need to adjust the `COPY` command accordingly.

2. Check the `main.py` file in the `app` folder. Make sure that the `FastAPI` instance is named `app`. For example:

   ```
   from fastapi import FastAPI

   app = FastAPI()

   @app.get("/")
   async def root():
       return {"message": "Hello World"}
   ```

3. Check the `requirements.txt` file. Make sure that all the required packages are listed and spelled correctly.

4. If you are using Docker Compose, make sure that the `build` section in the `docker-compose.yml` file is pointing to the correct directory. For example:

   ```
   version: "3.8"
   services:
     app:
       build: .
       ports:
         - "8000:8000"
   ```

If none of these solutions work, please provide more information about your project structure and Docker setup.

--------
