
# Post \#66698247 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66698247/)

## VSCode: The Python path in your debug configuration is invalid

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 18293 (316/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-221

Created at 2021-03-18 19:55:59

Tags: `python` `python-3.x`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Very new to Python and VSCode (and stackoverflow). I've been using both for about 3 months now just fine, up until recently that is.
When trying to run any basic Python program in the debugger, the popup `The Python path in your debug configuration is invalid. Source: Python(Extension)` appears and the debugger won't run. I go to my `launch.json` file and sure enough, I have the path to where Python is set up.
{
```
"version": "0.2.0",
"configurations": [
    {
        "name": "Python: Current File",
        "type": "python",
        "request": "launch",
        "program": "${file}",
        "console": "integratedTerminal",
        "python": "${command:python.interpreterPath}"
    }
]
```

}
Messing with `settings.json` doesn't help anything either because I do have the path to Python set up, but the debugger still won't run. I am at a loss what to do here. I have never gone into my .json files in the past before, nor have I ever had to configure my Python path after installing VSCode for the first time.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It sounds like the issue may be related to the Python extension in VSCode. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of the Python extension installed. You can check for updates by going to the Extensions tab in VSCode and searching for "Python". If an update is available, click the "Update" button.

2. Try setting the Python path in your `settings.json` file instead of your `launch.json` file. To do this, add the following line to your `settings.json` file:

```
"python.pythonPath": "/path/to/python"
```

Replace "/path/to/python" with the actual path to your Python installation.

3. If neither of the above solutions work, try uninstalling and reinstalling the Python extension. To do this, go to the Extensions tab in VSCode, search for "Python", and click the "Uninstall" button. Then, restart VSCode and reinstall the extension.

Hopefully one of these solutions will help you get the debugger running again. If not, feel free to ask for more help!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It sounds like there may be an issue with the Python extension in VSCode. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of the Python extension installed. You can check for updates by going to the Extensions tab in VSCode and searching for "Python".

2. Try specifying the path to your Python interpreter directly in your `launch.json` file, rather than using the `${command:python.interpreterPath}` variable. For example:

```
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Python: Current File",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "launch",
            "program": "${file}",
            "console": "integratedTerminal",
            "pythonPath": "/path/to/python/interpreter"
        }
    ]
}
```

3. If neither of the above solutions work, you can try uninstalling and reinstalling the Python extension in VSCode.

Hopefully one of these solutions will help you get your debugger working again!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It sounds like there may be an issue with the Python extension in VSCode. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of the Python extension installed. You can check for updates in the Extensions tab in VSCode.

2. Try specifying the path to your Python interpreter directly in your `launch.json` file, instead of using `${command:python.interpreterPath}`. For example:

```
"pythonPath": "/path/to/python"
```

3. If you're using a virtual environment, make sure it's activated before running the debugger. You can activate a virtual environment by running the command `source /path/to/venv/bin/activate` in your terminal.

4. Try reinstalling Python and the Python extension in VSCode.

Hopefully one of these solutions will help you get your debugger up and running again. If not, feel free to ask for more help!

--------
