
# Post \#63902467 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63902467/)

## module 'six.moves' has no attribute 'collections_abc'

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 8423 (450/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-294

Created at 2020-09-15 13:04:20

Tags: `python` `google-api` `airflow` `six`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a script that connects to YouTube API version 3 and retrieves public data. This script is deployed in airflow, it was working fine for a month, today it failed with this message for the following line:
```
def youtube_search(term,region):
        youtube = build(YOUTUBE_API_SERVICE_NAME, YOUTUBE_API_VERSION, developerKey=DEVELOPER_KEY,cache_discovery=False)
```

```
File "/usr/local/airflow/.local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/googleapiclient/discovery.py", line 455, in build_from_document
    if isinstance(client_options, six.moves.collections_abc.Mapping):
AttributeError: module 'six.moves' has no attribute 'collections_abc'
```

I went to check the [455th](https://github.com/googleapis/google-api-python-client/blob/master/googleapiclient/discovery.py) line on `discovery.py`
```
if isinstance(client_options, six.moves.collections_abc.Mapping):
        client_options = google.api_core.client_options.from_dict(client_options)
```

The `six` [module](https://github.com/benjaminp/six/blob/master/six.py) has not changed for a long time, nor has my script deployed in airflow, which config has not changed either.
As [Google](https://github.com/googleapis/google-api-python-client/blob/master/googleapiclient/discovery.py) module imports `six`, which has not changed, I can't figure out why would I get this error at random?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error message suggests that there might be an issue with the `six` module. It's possible that the version of `six` being used by your script is not compatible with the version of the `google-api-python-client` library that you are using.

You can try updating the `six` module to the latest version by running the following command:

```
pip install --upgrade six
```

If that doesn't work, you can try downgrading the `google-api-python-client` library to a previous version that is known to work with the version of `six` that you have installed. You can do this by running the following command:

```
pip install google-api-python-client==1.7.4
```

If neither of these solutions work, you may need to investigate further to determine the root cause of the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that the `collections_abc` module is not found in the `six.moves` module. This could be caused by a version mismatch between the `google-api-python-client` library and the `six` library.

You can try upgrading the `six` library to the latest version by running `pip install --upgrade six`. If that doesn't work, you can try downgrading the `google-api-python-client` library to a previous version that is known to work with the `six` library version you have installed.

Another possible solution is to explicitly import the `collections_abc` module from the `collections` package instead of relying on the `six` module. You can modify the line in `discovery.py` to:

```
if isinstance(client_options, collections.abc.Mapping):
        client_options = google.api_core.client_options.from_dict(client_options)
```

This should avoid any version conflicts with the `six` module.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message suggests that there might be an issue with the `six` module. It's possible that the version of `six` being used by your script is not compatible with the version required by the `google-api-python-client` library.

You can try updating the `six` module to the latest version by running `pip install --upgrade six` in your terminal. If that doesn't work, you can try downgrading the `google-api-python-client` library to a previous version that is compatible with the version of `six` you have installed.

Another possible solution is to explicitly import the `collections_abc` module from the `collections` package in your script, like this:

```
from collections import abc as collections_abc
```

Then, replace `six.moves.collections_abc` with `collections_abc` in the `discovery.py` file.

I hope this helps!

--------
