
# Post \#65229307 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65229307/)

## ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model'

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 4751 (529/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-307

Created at 2020-12-10 06:04:25

Tags: `python` `statsmodels`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to build a Ordered Probit model using statsmodel package in python. Used the following code to import:
`from statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model import OrderedModel`
but getting a following error:

I have updated the package as well but the error persists.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that the `OrdinalModel` class is not found in the `statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model` module. This could be due to a version mismatch or a package installation issue.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of `statsmodels` installed. You can do this by running `pip install --upgrade statsmodels` in your terminal.

2. Check if the `OrdinalModel` class is available in a different module. For example, in newer versions of `statsmodels`, the `OrdinalModel` class is available in the `statsmodels.discrete.discrete_model` module. You can try importing it from there using `from statsmodels.discrete.discrete_model import OrderedModel`.

3. If none of the above solutions work, you can try uninstalling and reinstalling `statsmodels`. You can do this by running `pip uninstall statsmodels` followed by `pip install statsmodels`.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you provided is not visible. However, here is an example of how to use the `OrderedModel` class from the `statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model` module:

```
import numpy as np
import statsmodels.api as sm
from statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model import OrderedModel

# Generate some random data
np.random.seed(123)
nobs = 100
x = np.random.normal(size=nobs)
y = np.random.choice([0, 1, 2], size=nobs, p=[0.3, 0.4, 0.3])

# Fit an ordered probit model
model = OrderedModel(y, x)
result = model.fit(method='bfgs')

# Print the summary of the model
print(result.summary())
```

In this example, `x` is a vector of independent variables and `y` is a vector of dependent variables that take on three ordered categories. The `OrderedModel` class is used to fit an ordered probit model to the data, and the `fit` method is used to estimate the model parameters. The `method` argument specifies the optimization algorithm to use. Finally, the `summary` method is used to print a summary of the model results.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you provided suggests that the `ordinal_model` module is not found in the `statsmodels.miscmodels` package. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. Outdated statsmodels version: Make sure you have the latest version of statsmodels installed. You can do this by running `pip install --upgrade statsmodels`.

2. Incorrect import statement: Double-check that you are importing the correct module. The `OrderedModel` class is actually located in the `statsmodels.discrete.discrete_model` module, not `statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model`. Try changing your import statement to `from statsmodels.discrete.discrete_model import OrderedModel`.

3. Missing dependencies: The `ordinal_model` module requires the `patsy` package to be installed. Make sure you have `patsy` installed by running `pip install patsy`.

Once you have addressed any of the above issues, you should be able to import and use the `OrderedModel` class without any errors.

--------
