
# Post \#65486981 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65486981/)

## What is __peg_parser__ in Python?

**Vote**: 59 (107/702) **Views**: 5413 (511/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-291

Created at 2020-12-29 03:31:25

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `python-3.9`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was using the [keyword](https://docs.python.org/3/library/keyword.html) built-in module to get a list of all the keywords of the current Python version. And this is what I did:
```
>>> import keyword
>>> print(keyword.kwlist)
['False', 'None', 'True', '__peg_parser__', 'and', 'as', 'assert', 'async', 'await', 'break', 'class', 'continue', 'def', 'del', 'elif', 'else', 'except', 'finally', 'for', 'from', 'global', 'if', 'import', 'in', 'is', 'lambda', 'nonlocal', 'not', 'or', 'pass', 'raise', 'return', 'try', 'while', 'with', 'yield']
```

And in the [keyword.kwlist](https://docs.python.org/3/library/keyword.html#keyword.kwlist) list there is `__peg_parser__`. So to see what it does, I type `__peg_parser__` in a Python 3.9 interpreter on Windows (you'll get the same output on Mac OS and Linux as well), and this is what is get:
```
>>> __peg_parser__
  File "<stdin>", line 1
    __peg_parser__
    ^
SyntaxError: You found it!
```

So my question is, what is `__peg_parser__` and why do I get `SyntaxError: You found it!`?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

`__peg_parser__` is not actually a Python keyword, but rather a special attribute used by the Python parser. It is used to implement PEG (Parsing Expression Grammar) parsing in Python. PEG is a type of parser that is used to parse complex grammars, and it is used in Python to parse the grammar of the language itself.

When you try to evaluate `__peg_parser__` in the Python interpreter, you get a `SyntaxError` with the message "You found it!" because the Python developers have added a special error message for this particular attribute. This is just a fun Easter egg added by the developers to make the Python interpreter more interesting.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

`__peg_parser__` is not a Python keyword, but rather a special attribute used internally by the Python parser. It is used to implement a new parsing engine called PEG (Parsing Expression Grammar) that was introduced in Python 3.9. 

When you try to evaluate `__peg_parser__` in the interpreter, you get a `SyntaxError` with the message "You found it!" because the Python developers added this error message as a joke to indicate that you have stumbled upon something that is not meant to be used directly.

In short, `__peg_parser__` is an implementation detail of the Python parser and is not intended to be used directly by Python programmers.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

`__peg_parser__` is not a Python keyword, but rather a special attribute used by the Python parser. It is used to implement a new parser for Python 3.9, which is based on the PEG (Parsing Expression Grammar) formalism.

The `SyntaxError: You found it!` message is actually an Easter egg added by the Python developers. It is a reference to a scene from the movie "The Matrix", where Neo finds a hidden message on his computer that says "Follow the white rabbit". In this case, the message is a playful way of acknowledging that you have found something that is not meant to be used directly in your code.

In general, you should avoid using special attributes like `__peg_parser__` in your code, as they are not part of the public API and may change or be removed in future versions of Python.

--------
