
# Post \#58558989 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58558989/)

## What does Django's @property do?

**Vote**: 76 (82/702) **Views**: 53804 (155/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-280

Created at 2019-10-25 12:58:25

Tags: `python` `django`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is `@property` in Django?
Here is how I understand it: `@property` is a decorator for methods in a class that gets the value in the method.
But, as I understand it, I can just call the method like normal and it will get it. So I am not sure what exactly it does.
Example from the [docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/topics/db/models/#model-methods):
```
from django.db import models

class Person(models.Model):
    first_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    last_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    birth_date = models.DateField()

    def baby_boomer_status(self):
        "Returns the person's baby-boomer status."
        import datetime
        if self.birth_date < datetime.date(1945, 8, 1):
            return "Pre-boomer"
        elif self.birth_date < datetime.date(1965, 1, 1):
            return "Baby boomer"
        else:
            return "Post-boomer"

    @property
    def full_name(self):
        "Returns the person's full name."
        return '%s %s' % (self.first_name, self.last_name)
```

What is the difference of if it is there vs if it isn't?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `@property` decorator in Python is used to convert a method into a "read-only" attribute of the same name. This means you can access the method as if it were an attribute, without needing to call it like a function.

In your example, `full_name` is a method. Without the `@property` decorator, you would call it like this:

```python
person = Person(first_name="John", last_name="Doe")
print(person.full_name())
```

But with the `@property` decorator, you can call it like this:

```python
person = Person(first_name="John", last_name="Doe")
print(person.full_name)
```

Notice that with `@property`, you don't need the parentheses. It's as if `full_name` were a field or attribute of the `Person` class, not a method. This can make your code cleaner and easier to read.

It's important to note that `@property` makes the attribute read-only. If you try to set a value to `full_name`, you'll get an error. If you want to be able to set the value as well, you can use the `@property_name.setter` decorator to define a setter method.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `@property` decorator in Python is used to convert a method into a "read-only" attribute of the same name. This allows you to access the method as if it were an attribute, without needing to call it like a function.

In your example, `full_name` is a method that returns a string combining the `first_name` and `last_name` attributes. By using the `@property` decorator, you can access this method as if it were an attribute. 

So instead of calling `person.full_name()`, you can simply use `person.full_name`.

If you didn't use the `@property` decorator, you would have to call the method like this: `person.full_name()`. 

The `@property` decorator is a way to give "attribute style" access to a method, which can make your code cleaner and easier to read. It's particularly useful when the method is performing a simple computation that doesn't need any arguments. 

In Django, this can be useful for things like computed fields that are based on other fields in the model. For example, in your case, the `full_name` property is a combination of the `first_name` and `last_name` fields.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `@property` decorator in Python is used to convert a method into a "read-only" attribute of the same name. This means you can access the method like an attribute without parentheses.

In your example, `full_name` is a method. If you want to call it, you would normally use `person.full_name()`. However, with the `@property` decorator, you can use `person.full_name` instead, which is more intuitive when the method is used to retrieve a property of the object.

If you remove the `@property` decorator, you would have to call `full_name` as a method: `person.full_name()`.

The `@property` decorator is a built-in decorator in Python for the property() function. It makes the usage of getter and setter methods (used for value checking and encapsulation) more pythonic and easier to use. 

In Django, it's often used in models to define computed fields that don't exist in the database, but are a function of the fields that do. In your example, `full_name` doesn't exist in the database, but is a combination of `first_name` and `last_name`.

--------
