
# Post \#65486981 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65486981/)

## What is __peg_parser__ in Python?

**Vote**: 59 (107/702) **Views**: 5413 (511/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-291

Created at 2020-12-29 03:31:25

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `python-3.9`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was using the [keyword](https://docs.python.org/3/library/keyword.html) built-in module to get a list of all the keywords of the current Python version. And this is what I did:
```
>>> import keyword
>>> print(keyword.kwlist)
['False', 'None', 'True', '__peg_parser__', 'and', 'as', 'assert', 'async', 'await', 'break', 'class', 'continue', 'def', 'del', 'elif', 'else', 'except', 'finally', 'for', 'from', 'global', 'if', 'import', 'in', 'is', 'lambda', 'nonlocal', 'not', 'or', 'pass', 'raise', 'return', 'try', 'while', 'with', 'yield']
```

And in the [keyword.kwlist](https://docs.python.org/3/library/keyword.html#keyword.kwlist) list there is `__peg_parser__`. So to see what it does, I type `__peg_parser__` in a Python 3.9 interpreter on Windows (you'll get the same output on Mac OS and Linux as well), and this is what is get:
```
>>> __peg_parser__
  File "<stdin>", line 1
    __peg_parser__
    ^
SyntaxError: You found it!
```

So my question is, what is `__peg_parser__` and why do I get `SyntaxError: You found it!`?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `__peg_parser__` is not a keyword in the traditional sense. It is a special symbol introduced in Python 3.9 as part of the transition from the old parser to a new PEG-based parser. PEG stands for Parsing Expression Grammar, which is a type of formal grammar used to parse input in programming languages.

The `__peg_parser__` symbol was used during the development of Python 3.9 to switch between the old and the new parser. If you were running a debug build of Python 3.9, you could use `__peg_parser__` to control which parser was used. However, in the final release of Python 3.9 and later versions, the old parser is no longer available, and `__peg_parser__` has no effect.

The `SyntaxError: You found it!` message is a sort of Easter egg or joke from the Python developers. It doesn't mean that you've done anything wrong or that there's a problem with your code. It's just a playful message indicating that you've discovered this special symbol.

In Python 3.10 and later, `__peg_parser__` is no longer listed in `keyword.kwlist`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `__peg_parser__` keyword is a bit of an easter egg in Python 3.9. It's not a keyword that you can actually use in your code like `if`, `for`, `while`, etc. 

The PEG in `__peg_parser__` stands for Parsing Expression Grammar. In Python 3.9, the old LL(1) parser was replaced with a new PEG-based parser. This was a significant change in how Python parses code.

The `__peg_parser__` keyword was added to the `keyword.kwlist` as a bit of an inside joke by the Python developers. If you try to use it, Python gives you a `SyntaxError` with the message "You found it!", which is not a standard error message you'd get for using an invalid keyword.

So, in short, `__peg_parser__` is not a keyword you can use in your code. It's just a little easter egg left by the Python developers.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `__peg_parser__` keyword is a special keyword in Python 3.9 and later versions. It's not a typical Python keyword like `if`, `for`, `while`, etc., but rather a flag used internally by the Python interpreter.

The PEG in `__peg_parser__` stands for Parsing Expression Grammar. It's a type of parser that Python started using from version 3.9 onwards to parse Python code. Before Python 3.9, Python used a different type of parser called an LL(1) parser.

The `__peg_parser__` keyword is a flag that was used by the Python core developers while transitioning from the old LL(1) parser to the new PEG parser. It allowed them to switch between the old and new parsers during the development and testing phase.

The `SyntaxError: You found it!` message is a bit of an inside joke from the Python core developers. It's not something that you would typically see in a production environment. It's there because the `__peg_parser__` keyword isn't meant to be used in regular Python code. It's a flag for the interpreter, not a keyword that has any functionality in a Python program.

In summary, you can safely ignore the `__peg_parser__` keyword when you're writing Python code. It's not something that you would use in a typical Python program.

--------
