
# Post \#52816156 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52816156/)

## How to create virtual environment for python 3.7.0?

**Vote**: 24 (233/702) **Views**: 103027 (81/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-282

Created at 2018-10-15 11:51:18

Tags: `linux` `virtualenv` `python-3.7`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm able to install it with root user but I wanted to install it in a clean environment. My use case is to test the installation of another application with pip for the customer who is using python3.7.0
> sudo apt-get updatesudo apt-get install build-essential libpq-dev libssl-dev openssl libffi-dev zlib1g-devsudo apt-get install python3-pip python3-devsudo apt-get install python3.7
Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

It seems like you're trying to install Python 3.7 and pip on a clean environment. Here are the steps to do it:

1. First, update the package list by running:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
2. Install the necessary packages for Python to run:
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential libpq-dev libssl-dev openssl libffi-dev zlib1g-dev
```
3. Install Python 3.7:
```
sudo apt-get install python3.7
```
4. Install pip for Python 3:
```
sudo apt-get install python3-pip
```
5. Verify the installation by checking the Python and pip versions:
```
python3.7 -V
pip3 -V
```
If you want to create a clean environment to test the installation of another application, you can use virtual environments. Python3 comes with the `venv` module to create virtual environments.

Here's how you can create a virtual environment:

1. First, navigate to the directory where you want to create the virtual environment.
2. Run the following command to create a new virtual environment:
```
python3.7 -m venv myenv
```
3. Activate the virtual environment:
```
source myenv/bin/activate
```
Now, you're in a clean environment where you can test the installation of your application. When you're done, you can deactivate the virtual environment by simply typing `deactivate` in your terminal.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you're trying to install Python 3.7 and pip on a Linux system. Here are the steps to do it:

1. Update the packages list:

```
sudo apt-get update
```

2. Install the required dependencies:

```
sudo apt-get install build-essential libpq-dev libssl-dev openssl libffi-dev zlib1g-dev
```

3. Install Python 3.7:

```
sudo apt-get install python3.7
```

4. Install pip for Python 3:

```
sudo apt-get install python3-pip
```

5. Verify the installation:

```
python3.7 -V
pip3 -V
```

The above commands should return the version of Python and pip installed.

If you want to create a clean environment to test the installation of another application, you can use virtual environments. Python3's venv is a good tool for this. Here's how you can create a virtual environment:

1. First, navigate to the directory where you want to create the virtual environment.

2. Create a new virtual environment:

```
python3.7 -m venv myenv
```

3. Activate the virtual environment:

```
source myenv/bin/activate
```

Now, you're in a clean environment where you can install and test your application. To deactivate the virtual environment, just type `deactivate`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems like you want to install Python 3.7.0 in a clean environment and then use pip to install another application. Here are the steps to do this:

1. First, update your package list:
```bash
sudo apt-get update
```

2. Install the necessary packages:
```bash
sudo apt-get install build-essential libpq-dev libssl-dev openssl libffi-dev zlib1g-dev
```

3. Install Python3 and pip:
```bash
sudo apt-get install python3-pip python3-dev
```

4. If you want to install a specific version of Python, you can do it from the source. Here is how you can install Python 3.7.0:

```bash
wget https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.7.0/Python-3.7.0.tgz
tar xvf Python-3.7.0.tgz
cd Python-3.7.0
./configure --enable-optimizations
make
sudo make altinstall
```

5. Verify the installation:
```bash
python3.7 -V
```

6. Now, you can create a virtual environment to install your application in a clean environment. First, install the `python3.7-venv` package:
```bash
sudo apt-get install python3.7-venv
```

7. Create a new virtual environment:
```bash
python3.7 -m venv myenv
```

8. Activate the virtual environment:
```bash
source myenv/bin/activate
```

9. Now, you are in a clean environment. You can use pip to install your application:
```bash
pip install your_application
```

10. When you are done, you can deactivate the virtual environment:
```bash
deactivate
```

Please replace `your_application` with the name of the application you want to install.

--------
