
# Post \#66958237 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66958237/)

## Query aws to list all resources using boto3 python sdk

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 6882 (485/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-220

Created at 2021-04-05 18:53:36

Tags: `python` `amazon-web-services` `boto3`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there a way to get all the resources in the aws account through python code using boto3. I went through the documentation, didn't find any list function which might solve this.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can use the `boto3` library to get a list of all the resources in your AWS account. However, you will need to use different functions for different types of resources. For example, to get a list of all EC2 instances, you can use the `ec2` client and call the `describe_instances()` method. Similarly, to get a list of all S3 buckets, you can use the `s3` client and call the `list_buckets()` method.

Here's an example code snippet that demonstrates how to get a list of all EC2 instances in your AWS account:

```python
import boto3

ec2 = boto3.client('ec2')

response = ec2.describe_instances()

instances = []

for reservation in response['Reservations']:
    for instance in reservation['Instances']:
        instances.append(instance)

print(instances)
```

This code will print a list of all EC2 instances in your account. You can modify this code to get a list of other types of resources as well.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can use the `boto3` library to get a list of all the resources in your AWS account. Here's an example code snippet that you can use:

```python
import boto3

# Create a session using your AWS credentials
session = boto3.Session(
    aws_access_key_id='YOUR_ACCESS_KEY',
    aws_secret_access_key='YOUR_SECRET_KEY',
    region_name='YOUR_REGION'
)

# Create a client for each service you want to list resources for
ec2_client = session.client('ec2')
s3_client = session.client('s3')
rds_client = session.client('rds')

# Get a list of all resources for each service
ec2_resources = ec2_client.describe_instances()
s3_resources = s3_client.list_buckets()
rds_resources = rds_client.describe_db_instances()

# Print the results
print(ec2_resources)
print(s3_resources)
print(rds_resources)
```

This code creates a session using your AWS credentials, and then creates a client for each service you want to list resources for (in this example, EC2, S3, and RDS). You can add more clients for other services as needed.

Once you have the clients, you can use the appropriate `describe` or `list` function to get a list of all the resources for each service. The results will be returned as a dictionary, which you can then print or process as needed.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can use the `boto3` library to get a list of all the resources in your AWS account. However, there is no single function that will give you a complete list of all resources. Instead, you will need to use different functions for different types of resources.

Here's an example of how to get a list of all EC2 instances in your account:

```python
import boto3

ec2 = boto3.resource('ec2')

instances = ec2.instances.all()

for instance in instances:
    print(instance.id)
```

Similarly, you can use the following code to get a list of all S3 buckets in your account:

```python
import boto3

s3 = boto3.resource('s3')

buckets = s3.buckets.all()

for bucket in buckets:
    print(bucket.name)
```

You can use similar code to get a list of other types of resources, such as RDS instances, Lambda functions, etc.

--------
