
# Post \#70519979 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70519979/)

## printing with RGB background

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 958 (662/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-244

Created at 2021-12-29 13:17:18

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `printing`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I know its possible to print RGB colored text like so:
```
def colored(r, g, b, text):
    return "\033[38;2;{};{};{}m{} \033[39m".format(r, g, b, text)


text = "Hello, World"
colored_text = colored(132, 204, 247, text)
print(colored_text)
```

But, is there a way to print with RGB colored ?
Cuz, as far as I know, there are a few kinda built-in background colors for printing. But I want to be able to use rgb codes and get the appropriate background color for the printed text.
Is this possible?
Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, it's possible to print text with an RGB colored background in Python. You can use the ANSI escape code `\033[48;2;r;g;bm` to set the background color, where `r`, `g`, and `b` are the RGB values. Here is how you can modify your function to set the background color:

```python
def colored_bg(r, g, b, text):
    return "\033[48;2;{};{};{}m{} \033[0m".format(r, g, b, text)

text = "Hello, World"
colored_text = colored_bg(132, 204, 247, text)
print(colored_text)
```

This will print the text "Hello, World" with a background color of RGB(132, 204, 247). The `\033[0m` at the end resets the background color to the terminal's default.

Please note that this might not work on all terminals. Some terminals might not support 24-bit color and will fall back to the nearest 8-bit color.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, it is possible to print text with RGB colored background in Python. The ANSI escape code for setting the background color in RGB is `\033[48;2;r;g;bm`. Here's how you can modify your function to set the background color:

```python
def colored_bg(r, g, b, text):
    return "\033[48;2;{};{};{}m{} \033[0m".format(r, g, b, text)

text = "Hello, World"
colored_text = colored_bg(132, 204, 247, text)
print(colored_text)
```

This will print the text "Hello, World" with a background color of RGB(132, 204, 247). The `\033[0m` at the end resets the background color to the terminal's default.

Please note that not all terminals support RGB color codes. If you're finding that the colors aren't displaying correctly, it may be that your terminal doesn't support this feature.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, it is possible to print text with RGB colored background in Python. You can use the ANSI escape sequence `\033[48;2;r;g;bm` to set the background color, where `r`, `g`, and `b` are the RGB values. Here is how you can modify your function to include a background color:

```python
def colored(r, g, b, text, br, bg, bb):
    return "\033[38;2;{};{};{}m\033[48;2;{};{};{}m{} \033[0m".format(r, g, b, br, bg, bb, text)

text = "Hello, World"
colored_text = colored(132, 204, 247, text, 255, 255, 255)  # RGB for text and background
print(colored_text)
```

In this function, `r`, `g`, and `b` are the RGB values for the text color, and `br`, `bg`, and `bb` are the RGB values for the background color. The `\033[0m` at the end resets both the text and background colors to their defaults.

Please note that this might not work in all terminals, as not all of them support 24-bit color.

--------
