
# Post \#65229307 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65229307/)

## ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model'

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 4751 (529/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-307

Created at 2020-12-10 06:04:25

Tags: `python` `statsmodels`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to build a Ordered Probit model using statsmodel package in python. Used the following code to import:
`from statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model import OrderedModel`
but getting a following error:

I have updated the package as well but the error persists.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering might be due to the fact that the `OrderedModel` is not directly accessible from `statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model`. The `OrderedModel` is not a part of the official `statsmodels` package yet. It's still in the development phase and not officially released.

However, you can use the `OrderedModel` from the development version of `statsmodels`. You can install the development version of `statsmodels` using the following command:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/statsmodels/statsmodels
```

After installing the development version, you should be able to import `OrderedModel` as follows:

```python
from statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model import OrderedModel
```

Please note that since this is a development version, it might not be stable and could potentially have bugs. If you encounter issues, you might want to consider using other stable packages or functions to build your Ordered Probit model. For example, you can use the `OrderedLogit` function from the `mord` package as an alternative.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're encountering might be due to the fact that the `OrderedModel` is not directly under `statsmodels.miscmodels`. It's actually under `statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model`.

However, as of the latest version of statsmodels (0.12.2), the `OrderedModel` is not available. The ordered probit model is not yet implemented in the stable version of statsmodels. 

You might want to use another package to build an ordered probit model. One such package is `mord`. Here is a simple example of how to use it:

```python
import mord
from sklearn.datasets import make_classification
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

# Generate a random dataset
X, y = make_classification(n_samples=1000, n_features=20, n_informative=15, n_classes=3, random_state=42)
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, random_state=42)

# Create an ordered probit model
model = mord.OrdinalRidge()

# Fit the model
model.fit(X_train, y_train)

# Make predictions
predictions = model.predict(X_test)
```

Please note that `mord` package is not as comprehensive as `statsmodels` and might not have all the functionalities you need. If you specifically need to use `statsmodels`, you might want to check their development version or contact their support for more information.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're encountering might be due to the fact that the `OrderedModel` is not directly under `statsmodels.miscmodels`. It's actually under `statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model`.

However, as of the latest version of `statsmodels` (0.12.2), there is no `OrderedModel` in `statsmodels.miscmodels.ordinal_model`. The `statsmodels` package does not currently have a built-in function for ordered probit models.

If you want to build an ordered probit model, you might need to use a different package or write your own function. One option is to use the `mord` package in Python, which is a Python package that provides implementations of some ordinal regression methods.

Here is an example of how you can use it:

```python
import mord
import numpy as np
from sklearn.datasets import make_classification

X, y = make_classification(n_samples=1000, n_features=20, n_informative=15, n_redundant=5, random_state=42)
y = np.round(y)

model = mord.OrdinalRidge()
model.fit(X, y)

predictions = model.predict(X)
```

In this example, `mord.OrdinalRidge()` is used to create an ordered probit model. The model is then trained using `model.fit(X, y)`, and predictions can be made using `model.predict(X)`.

--------
