
# Post \#65007143 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65007143/)

## pyqt5_tools designer.exe does not exist

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 5579 (508/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-177

Created at 2020-11-25 14:55:23

Tags: `python` `pip`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have installed PyQT5 by command `pip install pyqt5 pyqt5-tools`. Then I want to show path for designer.exe. However I could not found that in  directory. These are content of that folder.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/q6Vl2.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The PyQt5-tools package includes the PyQt5 designer, but it's not added to the PATH by default, so you have to find it manually. 

The location of the designer.exe file depends on your Python version and the location of your Python installation. 

Here is a general way to find it:

1. Open Python in your terminal or command prompt.
2. Import the `site` module.
3. Print the site packages path.

Here is the code:

```python
import site
print(site.getsitepackages())
```

This will print out the path to your site-packages folder. 

The `designer.exe` should be in a path similar to this: `Lib\site-packages\pyqt5_tools\Qt\bin\designer.exe` inside your Python installation directory.

If you still can't find it, it's possible that the PyQt5-tools package didn't install correctly. In that case, you might want to try reinstalling it.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The PyQt5-tools package includes a number of tools including the Qt Designer. However, the location of these tools can sometimes be hard to find because pip installs them in a directory that is associated with the specific Python environment you are using.

To find the location of the PyQt5-tools, you can use the following steps:

1. Open a Python interpreter in your terminal or command prompt. You can do this by simply typing `python` and hitting enter.

2. Import the `site` module by typing `import site`.

3. Print the site packages path by typing `print(site.getsitepackages())`.

This will give you a list of paths. The PyQt5-tools are usually located in one of these paths.

Once you have the path, navigate to it in your file explorer. Inside, look for a folder named `PyQt5_tools`. The Qt Designer executable (`designer.exe`) should be located in this folder.

If you still can't find the `designer.exe`, it's possible that the PyQt5-tools package didn't install correctly. In this case, you might want to try reinstalling it.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The PyQt5-tools package does not include the Qt Designer by default. The Qt Designer is a tool that is part of the binary distribution of Qt. It is not included in the PyQt5 package or the PyQt5-tools package.

If you want to use the Qt Designer, you have two options:

1. Install the full Qt SDK: This includes the Qt Designer, but it's a large download and install. You can download it from the official Qt website.

2. Install the standalone Qt Designer: This is a smaller download and install, but it may not be compatible with the latest version of PyQt5. You can download it from the official Qt website.

Once you have installed the Qt Designer, you can find the designer.exe file in the bin directory of the Qt installation.

If you want to use PyQt5-tools, you can try to install it using the following command:

```
pip install pyqt5-tools
```

After the installation, you can find the designer.exe file in the Scripts directory of your Python installation. The path should be something like this:

```
C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\PythonVersion\Scripts
```

Please replace "YourUsername" and "PythonVersion" with your actual username and Python version.

--------
