
# Post \#60839909 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60839909/)

## Errors running Pandas Profile Report

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 21153 (292/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-214

Created at 2020-03-24 21:52:29

Tags: `python` `pandas` `pandas-profiling`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to run a Profile Report for EDA in conda Jupyter NB, but keep getting errors.
Here is my code thus far:

```
import pandas_profiling
    from pandas_profiling import ProfileReport

    profile = ProfileReport(data)
```


and 

```
profile = pandas_profiling.ProfileReport(data)
```


both of which produce:    

> TypeError: concat() got an unexpected keyword argument 'join_axes'  

Research recommended upgrading to Pandas 1.0, which I'm using. 

Also tried

```
data.profile_report()
```


> AttributeError: 'DataFrame' object has no attribute 'profile_report'  

Any tips on where I am going wrong?  

Addendum...So I finally figured it out. Needed to install latest version of pandas-profiling in conda, which was 202003 version. Too easy.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It's great that you were able to figure out the solution to your problem. It's important to make sure that all the necessary packages are installed and up-to-date before running any code.

In case you encounter similar issues in the future, here are some tips that might help:

1. Check the version of pandas-profiling that you have installed. You can do this by running `pip show pandas-profiling` in your terminal or command prompt. Make sure that you have the latest version installed.

2. Check the version of pandas that you have installed. You can do this by running `pip show pandas` in your terminal or command prompt. Make sure that you have version 1.0 or higher installed.

3. If you're still encountering errors, try updating all your packages by running `pip install --upgrade pandas pandas-profiling` in your terminal or command prompt.

4. If none of the above solutions work, try searching for the error message online or posting a question on a programming forum. Other users may have encountered the same issue and may be able to provide helpful advice.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the issue is with the `join_axes` argument, which was removed in Pandas 1.0. You can try updating the `pandas-profiling` package to the latest version, which should be compatible with Pandas 1.0. 

To update the package, you can run the following command in your conda environment:

```
conda install -c conda-forge pandas-profiling
```

Once the package is updated, you can try running the `ProfileReport` function again. If you still encounter issues, please let me know and I'll try to help you further.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the issue is with the `join_axes` argument, which is no longer supported in Pandas 1.0. You can try removing this argument from your code and see if it works:

```
import pandas_profiling
from pandas_profiling import ProfileReport

profile = ProfileReport(data)
```

If this still doesn't work, you can try updating your pandas-profiling package to the latest version by running the following command in your conda environment:

```
conda install -c conda-forge pandas-profiling
```

Then try running your code again. This should resolve any compatibility issues with Pandas 1.0. 

Alternatively, you can try using the `pandas.DataFrame.profile_report()` method to generate the profile report directly from your DataFrame:

```
data.profile_report()
```

This method is available in Pandas 1.0 and should work without any additional packages.

--------
