
# Post \#72320130 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72320130/)

## Filter a list containing specific string

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 905 (665/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-224

Created at 2022-05-20 13:55:51

Tags: `python` `list`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


I have a specific set of a long list containing many asset pairs with different endings: `BTCUSDT` `ETHBTC` `ANKRETH`... From this list, I would like to filter out the symbols ending with USDT.

I have tried using `filter` and `all` with iterations, however, none provides the exact result.
Here are my attempts:

```
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_set = [word for word in symbols if 'USDT' in my_set]
my_set
```

> This results in an empty set.

```
keyword = ['USDT']
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
final = [ x for x in my_set in all(keyword in keyword for keyword in my_set)]
final
```

This results in the error:
> TypeError: argument of type 'bool' is not iterable

```
my_final_set = filter(lambda x:x.endswith(("USDT")), my_set)
my_final_set
```

> This shows: <filter at 0x7fe537eebf10>
I basically want my final list with all symbols ending with `USDT`

```
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
```

results in: `['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']`
Any help or advice on what I'm doing wrong would be massively appreciated. Thanks in advance!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You were close with your first attempt. The issue is that you are checking if the string `'USDT'` is in `my_set` instead of checking if it is in each individual string in `my_set`. Here's the corrected code:

```
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH']
my_final_set = [word for word in my_set if word.endswith('USDT')]
print(my_final_set)
```

This will output:

```
['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']
```

The list comprehension iterates over each string in `my_set` and checks if it ends with `'USDT'`. If it does, it is added to the new list `my_final_set`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You were close with your first attempt. Instead of checking if the keyword is in the original list, you should check if the keyword is in the current word being iterated over. Here's the corrected code:

```
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_final_set = [word for word in my_set if word.endswith('USDT')]
print(my_final_set)
```

This will output: `['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']`

In this code, we are iterating over each word in `my_set` and checking if it ends with the string `'USDT'`. If it does, we add it to the `my_final_set` list.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You were close with your first attempt. Instead of checking if the keyword is in the original list, you should check if the keyword is in the current word being iterated over. Here's the corrected code:

```
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_final_set = [word for word in my_set if word.endswith("USDT")]
print(my_final_set)
```

This will output: `['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']`

The `endswith` method checks if a string ends with a specified suffix. In this case, we check if the word ends with "USDT". If it does, we add it to the final list.

--------
