
# Post \#54912626 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54912626/)

## Python renaming Pandas DataFrame Columns

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 48243 (169/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-204

Created at 2019-02-27 18:56:37

Tags: `python` `pandas` `dataframe` `rename`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
datain = np.loadtxt(datafile)
df = pd.DataFrame(data = datain, columns = ["t","p","x","y","z"])
avg = df.groupby(["t"], sort=False)["p"].mean().rename(columns={1:"mean"})
```


This doesn't work, it tells me TypeError: rename() got an unexpected keyword argument "columns". It also doesn't work if I do this,

```
avg.rename(columns = {1:"mean"}, inplace=True)
```


I cannot figure out why, all documentation tells me that my columns call is correct. I just want to rename the blank column created by my "mean" call to have a string index. Anyone know why or how to fix this? All examples I've seen follow this format. Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `rename` function doesn't work on a Series object, which is what you get when you call `mean()` on a DataFrameGroupBy object. 

You can convert the Series to a DataFrame first, then rename the column. Here's how you can do it:

```python
avg = df.groupby(["t"], sort=False)["p"].mean().reset_index()
avg.columns = ["t", "mean"]
```

In this code, `reset_index()` is used to convert the Series to a DataFrame and then you can simply assign a list of column names to `avg.columns`. The first column is "t" (the group key) and the second column is the mean of "p", which we rename to "mean".

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `rename` function does not work on a Series object, which is what you get after using `groupby` and `mean`. The `rename` function works on DataFrame objects. 

If you want to rename the Series after using `groupby` and `mean`, you can convert it to a DataFrame first and then use the `rename` function. Here is how you can do it:

```python
avg = df.groupby(["t"], sort=False)["p"].mean().reset_index().rename(columns={"p":"mean"})
```

In this code, `reset_index()` is used to convert the Series to a DataFrame and then `rename` is used to rename the column.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `rename` function does not work directly on a Series object, which is what you get after performing the `mean()` operation. The `rename` function works on DataFrame objects. 

You can convert the Series to a DataFrame and then use the `rename` function. Here's how you can do it:

```python
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
datain = np.loadtxt(datafile)
df = pd.DataFrame(data = datain, columns = ["t","p","x","y","z"])
avg = df.groupby(["t"], sort=False)["p"].mean().reset_index().rename(columns={"p":"mean"})
```

In this code, `reset_index()` is used to convert the Series to a DataFrame and then `rename` is used to rename the column.

--------
