
# Post \#63187161 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63187161/)

## error while import pytorch module. (The specified module could not be found.)

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 22439 (280/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-312

Created at 2020-07-31 06:59:44

Tags: `python` `dll` `pytorch`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I just newly install python 3.8 via anaconda installer and install pytorch using command
```
conda install pytorch torchvision cpuonly -c pytorch
```

when i try to import torch, I got this error message.
```
OSError: [WinError 126] The specified module could not be found. Error loading "C:\Users\chunc\anaconda3\lib\site-packages\torch\lib\asmjit.dll" or one of its dependencies.
```

I can see [dll files](https://i.stack.imgur.com/s92PY.png) are still in the directory.
I ran Dependency Walker and it gave me [this result](https://i.stack.imgur.com/nsnqp.png).
I am with this problem for a day.
What should i do if i want to use PyTorch module?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error message indicates that there is a problem with the `asmjit.dll` file that PyTorch is trying to load. Here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure that your Anaconda installation is up to date. You can do this by running `conda update anaconda`.

2. Try reinstalling PyTorch using the following command: `conda install pytorch torchvision cpuonly -c pytorch -f`.

3. Check if you have any conflicting versions of the `asmjit.dll` file on your system. You can do this by searching for the file using Windows Explorer and checking if there are any other versions of the file in other directories. If you find any conflicting versions, try removing them and then reinstalling PyTorch.

4. Try installing the Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2019. You can download it from the Microsoft website [here](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/).

5. If none of the above solutions work, you can try manually downloading the `asmjit.dll` file from the PyTorch GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/tree/master/torch/lib). Once you have downloaded the file, copy it to the `C:\Users\chunc\anaconda3\lib\site-packages\torch\lib` directory and try importing PyTorch again.

Hopefully, one of these solutions will help you resolve the issue and allow you to use PyTorch.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message suggests that there might be an issue with the installation of PyTorch or one of its dependencies. Here are a few things you can try to resolve the issue:

1. Try reinstalling PyTorch using the following command:
```
conda install pytorch torchvision cpuonly -c pytorch -f
```
The `-f` flag forces a reinstallation of the package, which might help if there was an issue with the initial installation.

2. Check that your Anaconda environment is activated. You can activate your environment by running the following command:
```
conda activate <env_name>
```
Replace `<env_name>` with the name of your environment.

3. Try installing the Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2019. You can download it from the following link: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/#microsoft-visual-c-redistributable-for-visual-studio-2019

4. Check that your system meets the minimum requirements for PyTorch. PyTorch requires a 64-bit version of Windows 7 or later, and a CUDA-enabled GPU for GPU acceleration.

5. If none of the above solutions work, you can try installing PyTorch from source. Instructions for installing PyTorch from source can be found in the PyTorch documentation: https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch#from-source

I hope one of these solutions helps you resolve the issue and start using PyTorch.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message indicates that there is an issue with loading the `asmjit.dll` file or one of its dependencies. Here are some steps you can try to resolve the issue:

1. Check if your system meets the PyTorch installation requirements. PyTorch requires a 64-bit version of Python 3.6, 3.7, or 3.8, and a compatible version of CUDA if you plan to use GPU acceleration.

2. Try reinstalling PyTorch using the following command:
```
conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio cpuonly -c pytorch
```
This command installs the latest version of PyTorch along with its dependencies.

3. Check if the `asmjit.dll` file is present in the `C:\Users\chunc\anaconda3\lib\site-packages\torch\lib` directory. If it is missing, try reinstalling PyTorch as mentioned in step 2.

4. Check if the `asmjit.dll` file is being blocked by your antivirus software. If so, try disabling the antivirus temporarily and then reinstall PyTorch.

5. Try installing the Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2019. You can download it from the Microsoft website.

6. If none of the above steps work, try installing PyTorch using the pip package manager instead of conda. You can use the following command:
```
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio
```

I hope one of these steps helps you resolve the issue and use PyTorch successfully.

--------
