
# Post \#54470917 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54470917/)

## Pandas GroupBy and select rows with the minimum value in a specific column

**Vote**: 58 (113/702) **Views**: 40685 (192/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-252

Created at 2019-01-31 23:45:59

Tags: `python` `pandas` `group-by`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a DataFrame with columns A, B, and C. For each value of A, I would like to select the row with the minimum value in column B.
That is, from this:
```
df = pd.DataFrame({'A': [1, 1, 1, 2, 2, 2],
                   'B': [4, 5, 2, 7, 4, 6],
                   'C': [3, 4, 10, 2, 4, 6]})      
    A   B   C
0   1   4   3
1   1   5   4
2   1   2   10
3   2   7   2
4   2   4   4
5   2   6   6
```

I would like to get:
```
A   B   C
0   1   2   10
1   2   4   4
```

For the moment I am grouping by column A, then creating a value that indicates to me the rows I will keep:
```
a = data.groupby('A').min()
a['A'] = a.index
to_keep = [str(x[0]) + str(x[1]) for x in a[['A', 'B']].values]
data['id'] = data['A'].astype(str) + data['B'].astype('str')
data[data['id'].isin(to_keep)]
```

I am sure that there is a much more straightforward way to do this.
I have seen many answers here that use MultiIndex, which I would prefer to avoid.
Thank you for your help.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `idxmin` function to find the index of the minimum value in column B for each group in column A. Then, use `loc` to select these rows. Here's how you can do it:

```python
df.loc[df.groupby('A')['B'].idxmin()]
```

This will return the rows with the minimum value in column B for each group in column A.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, there is a more straightforward way to do this using the `idxmin` function in combination with `groupby`. Here's how you can do it:

```python
df.loc[df.groupby('A')['B'].idxmin()]
```

This will return the rows of your DataFrame where column 'B' has the minimum value for each group in column 'A'. The `idxmin` function returns the index of the minimum value in each group, and `df.loc[]` is used to select these rows.

Here's how it works:

- `df.groupby('A')['B'].idxmin()` groups the DataFrame by column 'A' and then finds the index of the minimum value in column 'B' for each group.
- `df.loc[]` selects the rows in the DataFrame that correspond to these indices.

This will give you the desired output:

```
   A  B   C
2  1  2  10
4  2  4   4
```

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `idxmin` function in combination with `groupby` to achieve this. Here is how you can do it:

```python
df.loc[df.groupby('A')['B'].idxmin()]
```

This will return the rows of your DataFrame where 'B' is minimum for each group of 'A'. 

The `groupby('A')['B'].idxmin()` part returns the index of the minimum 'B' for each 'A'. Then `df.loc[]` uses these indices to select the corresponding rows from the DataFrame.

--------
