
# Post \#62325068 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62325068/)

## Cannot install latest nodejs using conda on Mac

**Vote**: 23 (239/702) **Views**: 30006 (232/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-305

Created at 2020-06-11 13:02:27

Tags: `node.js` `conda` `conda-forge`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `javascript` `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When I run `conda search -c conda-forge nodejs`, I get:

```
# Name                       Version           Build  Channel
...
nodejs                        14.2.0      h2c41780_1  conda-forge
nodejs                        14.2.0      h38d8c5a_0  conda-forge
nodejs                        14.3.0      h2c41780_0  conda-forge
nodejs                        14.4.0      h2c41780_0  conda-forge
```


But when I try to install it using `conda install -c conda-forge nodejs` it tries to install 6.13.1. Doing `conda install -c conda-forge nodejs==14.4.0` also does not work. It keeps trying to "solve" the environment. Any suggestions on how to fix this?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there might be a conflict between the dependencies of the packages you have installed and the dependencies required by the `nodejs` package. You can try creating a new environment and installing `nodejs` in that environment to avoid any conflicts. Here are the steps to create a new environment and install `nodejs`:

1. Create a new environment using the following command:

   ```
   conda create --name myenv
   ```

   Replace `myenv` with the name you want to give to your new environment.

2. Activate the new environment using the following command:

   ```
   conda activate myenv
   ```

3. Install `nodejs` in the new environment using the following command:

   ```
   conda install -c conda-forge nodejs
   ```

   This should install the latest version of `nodejs` available in the `conda-forge` channel.

If you still face issues, you can try updating your conda installation using `conda update conda` and then try the above steps again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like there might be a conflict with other packages in your environment. You can try creating a new environment and installing nodejs in that environment using the following commands:

```
conda create -n myenv
conda activate myenv
conda install -c conda-forge nodejs==14.4.0
```

This will create a new environment called `myenv`, activate it, and then install nodejs version 14.4.0 in that environment. If this works, it might indicate that there are conflicts with other packages in your original environment. You can then try to troubleshoot the conflicts or continue using the new environment for your nodejs development.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It's possible that there are conflicting dependencies in your environment that are preventing the installation of the desired version of Node.js. You can try creating a new environment and installing Node.js in that environment to see if that resolves the issue. Here are the steps to create a new environment and install Node.js:

1. Create a new environment: `conda create -n myenv`
2. Activate the new environment: `conda activate myenv`
3. Install Node.js: `conda install -c conda-forge nodejs==14.4.0`

If this still doesn't work, you can try using `pip` to install Node.js instead of `conda`. Here are the steps to install Node.js using `pip`:

1. Create a new environment: `conda create -n myenv`
2. Activate the new environment: `conda activate myenv`
3. Install `pip` in the environment: `conda install pip`
4. Install Node.js using `pip`: `pip install nodejs==14.4.0`

I hope this helps!

--------
