
# Post \#67136061 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67136061/)

## TypeError: list indices must be integers or slices, not str - While accessing element of list

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 15024 (357/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-293

Created at 2021-04-17 08:11:31

Tags: `python` `python-3.x`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm new to Python. Here I'm trying to access `list` object in python which is throwing following error.
> TypeError: list indices must be integers or slices, not str

---


`print(a)`

```
['{"id":9,"name":"Foo"}']
```

`print(type(a))`

```
<class 'list'>
```

`print(a['id'])`

```
TypeError: list indices must be integers or slices, not str
```

`print(a[0]['id'])`

```
TypeError: string indices must be integers
```

`print(a[0])`

```
{"id":9,"name":"Foo"}
```


---



### Expected Output


```
9
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message is indicating that you are trying to access a `list` using a string index instead of an integer index. In your case, the `list` contains a single string element, which is a JSON object. To access the `id` property of the JSON object, you need to first convert the string to a Python dictionary using the `json` module and then access the `id` property using the dictionary syntax.

Here's the corrected code:

```python
import json

a = ['{"id":9,"name":"Foo"}']
json_obj = json.loads(a[0])
print(json_obj['id'])
```

Output:

```
9
```

In this code, we first import the `json` module to parse the JSON string. Then, we access the first element of the `list` using the integer index `0`. We parse the JSON string using the `json.loads()` method, which returns a Python dictionary. Finally, we access the `id` property of the dictionary using the dictionary syntax `json_obj['id']`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message is telling you that you cannot use a string as an index for a list. In your case, `a` is a list with one element, which is a string containing a JSON object. To access the `id` value of the JSON object, you need to first convert the string to a dictionary using the `json` module, and then access the `id` key of the dictionary.

Here's how you can do it:

```python
import json

a = ['{"id":9,"name":"Foo"}']

# Convert the string to a dictionary
d = json.loads(a[0])

# Access the 'id' key of the dictionary
print(d['id'])
```

Output:

```
9
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message is telling you that you cannot use a string as an index for a list. In your case, `a` is a list with one element, which is a string containing a JSON object. To access the value of the `id` key in the JSON object, you need to first parse the string into a Python dictionary using the `json` module. Here's an example:

```python
import json

a = ['{"id":9,"name":"Foo"}']
json_obj = json.loads(a[0])
print(json_obj['id'])
```

Output:

```
9
```

In this example, we first import the `json` module, which provides functions for encoding and decoding JSON data. We then use the `json.loads()` function to parse the string in `a[0]` into a Python dictionary called `json_obj`. Finally, we access the value of the `id` key in `json_obj` using the square bracket notation.

--------
