
# Post \#67929517 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67929517/)

## Conda command to list size of packages

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 4977 (522/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-196

Created at 2021-06-10 23:21:13

Tags: `anaconda` `conda`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like to find out the size of conda packages to delete the huge and seldom used ones. Which conda command should I use to find out the package size?
`conda list` will list the packages but does not show the package size.
I welcome other methods to find out package size.
I'm using Windows 10.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `conda list --size` command to list all packages along with their sizes. This command will display the size of each package in human-readable format (KB, MB, GB).

If you want to sort the packages by size, you can use the following command in the Anaconda Prompt:

```bash
conda list --size --json | jq -r '.[] | "\(.size.KB) KB \(.name)"' | sort -n
```

This command will list all packages sorted by size in ascending order. The `jq` command is used to parse the JSON output from `conda list --size --json`.

Please note that `jq` is not included in Windows by default. You can download it from https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/.

After downloading, add the path of `jq` to the system environment variable PATH.

If you don't want to use `jq`, you can use Python to parse the JSON output:

```bash
conda list --size --json > packages.json
```

Then, use the following Python script to parse `packages.json`:

```python
import json

with open('packages.json') as f:
    packages = json.load(f)

packages.sort(key=lambda x: x['size'])

for package in packages:
    print(f"{package['size']} KB {package['name']}")
```

This script will print all packages sorted by size in ascending order.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `conda` package manager to find out the size of the packages. However, `conda` does not provide a direct command to list the size of the packages. 

Here is a workaround using the `mamba` package manager, which is a fast drop-in replacement for `conda`. `mamba` provides a command to list the size of the packages. 

First, install `mamba` using `conda`:

```bash
conda install mamba -n base -c conda-forge
```

Then, you can use the following command to list the packages along with their sizes:

```bash
mamba list --size
```

This will list all the packages in the current environment along with their sizes.

If you want to list the packages in a specific environment, you can use the `-n` or `--name` option followed by the name of the environment:

```bash
mamba list --size -n myenv
```

This will list all the packages in the `myenv` environment along with their sizes.

Please note that the sizes listed by `mamba` are the sizes of the packages when they were downloaded and installed, and do not include any data that the packages may have created after installation.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `conda list --size` command to list all the packages along with their sizes. However, this feature is available only in conda 4.5.0 and later versions. 

If you are using an older version of conda, you might need to manually check the size of the packages. You can do this by navigating to the directory where conda packages are stored. The default location for conda packages is in the pkgs directory in your Anaconda installation location. 

In Windows, it's typically in `C:\Users\YourUserName\Anaconda3\pkgs`. You can check the size of each package folder manually.

Please note that the size of the package folder might not accurately represent the size of the package when it's installed, as the installation might involve uncompressing files or downloading additional data.

--------
