
# Post \#69954697 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69954697/)

## Why does .loc assignment with two sets of brackets result in NaN in a pandas.DataFrame?

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 1394 (631/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-241

Created at 2021-11-13 13:27:32

Tags: `python` `pandas` `dataframe` `nan` `series`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a DataFrame:

|  | name | age | 
|  | ---- | --- | 
| 0 | Paul | 25 | 
| 1 | John | 27 | 
| 2 | Bill | 23 | 


I know that if I enter:
> ```
df[['name']] = df[['age']]
```

I'll get the following:

|  | name | age | 
|  | ---- | --- | 
| 0 | 25 | 25 | 
| 1 | 27 | 27 | 
| 2 | 23 | 23 | 


But I expect the  result from the command:
> ```
df.loc[:, ['name']] = df.loc[:, ['age']]
```

But instead, I get this:

|  | name | age | 
|  | ---- | --- | 
| 0 | NaN | 25 | 
| 1 | NaN | 27 | 
| 2 | NaN | 23 | 


For some reason, if I omit those square brackets `[]` around column names, I'll get exactly what I expected. That is the command:
> ```
df.loc[:, 'name'] = df.loc[:, 'age']
```

gives the right result:

|  | name | age | 
|  | ---- | --- | 
| 0 | 25 | 25 | 
| 1 | 27 | 27 | 
| 2 | 23 | 23 | 


`.loc` Is it some sort of a bug or is it intended behaviour? I can't figure out the reason for such a behaviour.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

This is not a bug, but rather a feature of how pandas handles DataFrame indexing. 

When you use double brackets `[[ ]]` around the column name, pandas returns a DataFrame. When you use single brackets `[ ]`, it returns a Series. 

The `df.loc[:, ['name']] = df.loc[:, ['age']]` command is trying to assign a DataFrame (the right-hand side) to a DataFrame (the left-hand side). However, because the 'name' and 'age' columns are not the same, pandas cannot align the DataFrames correctly, resulting in NaN values.

On the other hand, `df.loc[:, 'name'] = df.loc[:, 'age']` is assigning a Series (the right-hand side) to a Series (the left-hand side). In this case, pandas can align the Series correctly because it's based on the index, not the column names.

So, it's not a bug, but rather a consequence of how pandas handles DataFrame vs Series assignment.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

This is not a bug, but rather a feature of how pandas handles DataFrame indexing. 

When you use double brackets `[[ ]]`, you are selecting a DataFrame. When you use single brackets `[ ]`, you are selecting a Series. 

When you use `df[['name']] = df[['age']]`, you are replacing the 'name' DataFrame with the 'age' DataFrame. 

However, when you use `df.loc[:, ['name']] = df.loc[:, ['age']]`, you are trying to replace the 'name' DataFrame with the 'age' Series, which leads to a mismatch in dimensions and results in NaN values.

When you use `df.loc[:, 'name'] = df.loc[:, 'age']`, you are replacing the 'name' Series with the 'age' Series, which works as expected.

So, this is not a bug, but rather a feature of how pandas handles DataFrame indexing. It's important to be aware of the difference between a DataFrame and a Series when performing operations like this.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

This is not a bug, but rather a feature of how pandas handles DataFrame indexing. 

When you use double brackets like `df[['name']]` or `df.loc[:, ['name']]`, you are essentially creating a new DataFrame with a single column. This is different from `df['name']` or `df.loc[:, 'name']`, which returns a Series. 

When you try to assign a DataFrame (df[['age']]) to a DataFrame (df[['name']]), pandas tries to match on the columns and the index. In your case, the column names are different ('name' vs 'age'), so pandas cannot find a match and hence assigns NaN values.

On the other hand, when you assign a Series (df['age'] or df.loc[:, 'age']) to a DataFrame (df[['name']]), pandas will ignore the column names and just assign the values based on the index. This is why you get the expected result.

So, this is intended behavior in pandas, not a bug. It's just a matter of understanding how pandas handles different types of indexing and assignment.

--------
