
# Post \#59596176 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59596176/)

## When we should use "db_index=True" in Django?

**Vote**: 20 (261/702) **Views**: 14652 (363/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-215

Created at 2020-01-05 00:57:22

Tags: `django` `django-models` `django-orm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When we should define `db_index=True` on a model fields ?
I'm trying to optimize the application & I want to learn more about `db_index`, in which conditions we should use it ?
The documentation says that using `db_index=True` on model fields is used to speed up the lookups with slightly disadvantages with storage and memory.
Should we use `db_index=True` only on those fields that have unique values like the primary field `id` ? 
What happens if we enabled indexing for those fields which are not unique and contains repetitive data ?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

`db_index=True` should be used on fields that are frequently used in queries, especially in `WHERE` clauses. Indexing a field can speed up queries that filter or order by that field, but it can also slow down inserts, updates, and deletes. 

You should consider using `db_index=True` on fields that are frequently used in queries, such as foreign keys, fields used for filtering or ordering, and fields used in joins. 

It is not necessary to use `db_index=True` only on fields that have unique values like the primary field `id`. You can use it on fields that have repetitive data, but it may not be as effective as indexing unique fields. 

If you enable indexing for fields that are not unique and contain repetitive data, it may increase the size of the index and slow down inserts, updates, and deletes. It may also not be as effective in speeding up queries as indexing unique fields. 

In summary, use `db_index=True` on fields that are frequently used in queries, especially in `WHERE` clauses, and consider the trade-offs between query performance and insert/update/delete performance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

`db_index=True` is used to create an index on a database table column. Indexing can speed up the queries that filter or order by the indexed column. However, indexing also has some disadvantages, such as increased storage and memory usage.

You should use `db_index=True` on fields that are frequently used in queries and have a high cardinality (i.e., a large number of distinct values). This includes fields that are used for filtering, ordering, or joining tables. 

You can use `db_index=True` on fields that are not unique, but it may not provide as much performance improvement as indexing unique fields. In fact, indexing non-unique fields may even slow down queries if the indexed column has a low cardinality (i.e., a small number of distinct values).

In general, you should use `db_index=True` judiciously and only on fields that are likely to benefit from indexing. You can use database profiling tools to identify the queries that are slow and determine which fields to index.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

`db_index=True` should be used on fields that are frequently used in queries, especially when the table has a large number of rows. It is not necessary to use it on fields that have unique values like the primary key `id`, as they are already indexed by default.

If you enable indexing on fields that are not unique and contain repetitive data, it can still improve the performance of queries that use those fields in the WHERE clause. However, it may slightly increase the storage and memory usage of the database, as the index will need to store references to all the rows that contain the indexed value.

In general, it is recommended to use indexing judiciously and only on fields that are frequently used in queries. Over-indexing can lead to slower write performance and increased storage requirements. It is also important to regularly monitor the performance of your queries and adjust indexing as necessary.

--------
