
# Post \#59827464 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59827464/)

## how to fill a Pandas dataframe column with a list containing string values

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 15399 (353/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-197

Created at 2020-01-20 16:32:23

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `pandas` `numpy`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a dataframe with 142 rows.
I have created a new column. I want to fill this new column with a list containing strings.

```
my_list = ['abc','def','hig']
df['names'] = df['names'].fill(my_list) #pseudo code
```


I want to fill all the 142 rows in 'names' column with string values in the list in the same order. 

```
The output should be as:   

     names
   1 abc
   2 def
   3 hig
   4 abc
   5 def
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `cycle` function from the `itertools` module to create an iterator that cycles through the list of names. Then you can use a list comprehension to fill the 'names' column with the values from the iterator.

Here's the code:

```
import itertools

my_list = ['abc', 'def', 'hig']
name_iterator = itertools.cycle(my_list)

df['names'] = [next(name_iterator) for i in range(len(df))]
```

This code creates an iterator that cycles through the list of names, and then uses a list comprehension to fill the 'names' column with the values from the iterator. The `next` function is used to get the next value from the iterator, and the `range` function is used to create a sequence of integers that is the same length as the dataframe.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `cycle` function from the `itertools` module to repeat the list in a loop and then assign it to the new column in the dataframe. Here's the code:

```python
import itertools

my_list = ['abc', 'def', 'hig']
df['names'] = list(itertools.islice(itertools.cycle(my_list), len(df)))
```

This code creates an iterator that cycles through the `my_list` repeatedly and then uses the `islice` function to limit the number of elements to the length of the dataframe. Finally, the iterator is converted to a list and assigned to the new column in the dataframe.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `cycle` function from the `itertools` module to repeat the list in a loop and then assign it to the new column in the dataframe. Here's how you can do it:

```
import itertools

my_list = ['abc', 'def', 'hig']
df['names'] = list(itertools.islice(itertools.cycle(my_list), len(df)))
```

This code creates an iterator that cycles through the `my_list` in a loop using the `cycle` function. Then, the `islice` function is used to limit the iterator to the length of the dataframe. Finally, the iterator is converted to a list and assigned to the new column in the dataframe.

--------
