
# Post \#63902467 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63902467/)

## module 'six.moves' has no attribute 'collections_abc'

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 8423 (450/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-294

Created at 2020-09-15 13:04:20

Tags: `python` `google-api` `airflow` `six`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a script that connects to YouTube API version 3 and retrieves public data. This script is deployed in airflow, it was working fine for a month, today it failed with this message for the following line:
```
def youtube_search(term,region):
        youtube = build(YOUTUBE_API_SERVICE_NAME, YOUTUBE_API_VERSION, developerKey=DEVELOPER_KEY,cache_discovery=False)
```

```
File "/usr/local/airflow/.local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/googleapiclient/discovery.py", line 455, in build_from_document
    if isinstance(client_options, six.moves.collections_abc.Mapping):
AttributeError: module 'six.moves' has no attribute 'collections_abc'
```

I went to check the [455th](https://github.com/googleapis/google-api-python-client/blob/master/googleapiclient/discovery.py) line on `discovery.py`
```
if isinstance(client_options, six.moves.collections_abc.Mapping):
        client_options = google.api_core.client_options.from_dict(client_options)
```

The `six` [module](https://github.com/benjaminp/six/blob/master/six.py) has not changed for a long time, nor has my script deployed in airflow, which config has not changed either.
As [Google](https://github.com/googleapis/google-api-python-client/blob/master/googleapiclient/discovery.py) module imports `six`, which has not changed, I can't figure out why would I get this error at random?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is typically due to a version mismatch between the `six` module and the `googleapiclient` module. The `six.moves.collections_abc` attribute was added in a later version of `six`, so if you're using an older version of `six`, you might not have this attribute, hence the `AttributeError`.

Here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. **Upgrade the `six` module**: You can upgrade the `six` module to the latest version using pip:

   ```
   pip install --upgrade six
   ```

   After upgrading, try running your script again to see if the issue is resolved.

2. **Check the version of `six`**: You can check the version of `six` you're using with the following command:

   ```
   python -c "import six; print(six.__version__)"
   ```

   If the version is less than 1.13.0, you should upgrade it, as the `collections_abc` attribute was added in version 1.13.0.

3. **Check the version of `googleapiclient`**: Similarly, you can check the version of `googleapiclient` you're using with the following command:

   ```
   python -c "import googleapiclient; print(googleapiclient.__version__)"
   ```

   If the version is very old, you might consider upgrading it as well.

4. **Check for multiple versions of `six`**: It's possible that you have multiple versions of `six` installed in different locations, and the older version is being used. You can check for this with the following command:

   ```
   python -c "import six; print(six.__file__)"
   ```

   This will print the location of the `six` module that's being used. If this is not the location where you installed the latest version of `six`, you might need to adjust your PYTHONPATH or uninstall the old version.

5. **Reinstall `googleapiclient`**: If all else fails, you might consider uninstalling and reinstalling the `googleapiclient` module. This should ensure that it's using the correct version of `six`.

   ```
   pip uninstall google-api-python-client
   pip install google-api-python-client
   ```

Remember to restart your Airflow server after making these changes to ensure they take effect.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the `collections_abc` attribute cannot be found in the `six.moves` module. This could be due to several reasons:

1. **Version Mismatch**: There might be a version mismatch between the `six` module and the `google-api-python-client` module. The `collections_abc` attribute was added in a certain version of `six`, so if you are using an older version, you might encounter this error.

2. **Environment Issue**: The environment in which your Airflow is running might have changed. This could be due to an update or installation of another package that has altered the Python environment.

Here are some steps you can take to troubleshoot and resolve this issue:

1. **Check the version of `six`**: You can do this by running `pip show six` in your Airflow environment. If the version is older than 1.13.0, you should upgrade it by running `pip install --upgrade six`.

2. **Check the version of `google-api-python-client`**: Similarly, run `pip show google-api-python-client` to check its version. If it's not the latest, consider upgrading it.

3. **Reinstall the packages**: If the versions are correct, try reinstalling both packages. Uninstall them first with `pip uninstall six google-api-python-client`, and then reinstall them with `pip install six google-api-python-client`.

4. **Isolate the environment**: If the problem persists, consider using a virtual environment to isolate your Airflow environment from the rest of your system. This can help prevent conflicts between packages.

5. **Check for changes in your Airflow environment**: If none of the above solutions work, check if there have been any changes to your Airflow environment. This could be updates, new packages, or changes in configuration.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing suggests that the `collections_abc` attribute cannot be found in the `six.moves` module. This is strange because, as you mentioned, the `six` module hasn't been updated recently.

This issue might be related to the version of `six` that you're using. The `collections_abc` attribute was added in `six` version 1.13.0. If you're using an older version of `six`, you might not have access to this attribute, which could be causing the error.

Here are a few things you can do to troubleshoot this issue:

1. **Check the version of `six` you're using:** You can do this by running `pip show six` in your terminal. If you're using a version older than 1.13.0, you should update `six` to a newer version.

2. **Update `six`:** You can update `six` by running `pip install --upgrade six` in your terminal.

3. **Check for conflicting versions of `six`:** It's possible that you have multiple versions of `six` installed in different environments, and the wrong version is being used. You can check for this by running `pip list | grep six` in your terminal. If you see multiple versions of `six`, you might need to uninstall the conflicting versions.

4. **Check your PYTHONPATH:** The `PYTHONPATH` environment variable can affect which version of a module is imported. If `PYTHONPATH` includes a directory that contains an old version of `six`, that version might be used instead of the newer version. You can check your `PYTHONPATH` by running `echo $PYTHONPATH` in your terminal.

5. **Check for issues with your Airflow environment:** Since your script is deployed in Airflow, there might be something about the Airflow environment that's causing the issue. For example, Airflow might be using a different Python interpreter, which could be using a different version of `six`. You can check the Python interpreter that Airflow is using by running `which python` in your Airflow environment.

If none of these steps resolve the issue, please provide more information about your environment and I'll be happy to help further.

--------
