
# Post \#58558989 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58558989/)

## What does Django's @property do?

**Vote**: 76 (82/702) **Views**: 53804 (155/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-280

Created at 2019-10-25 12:58:25

Tags: `python` `django`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is `@property` in Django?
Here is how I understand it: `@property` is a decorator for methods in a class that gets the value in the method.
But, as I understand it, I can just call the method like normal and it will get it. So I am not sure what exactly it does.
Example from the [docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/topics/db/models/#model-methods):
```
from django.db import models

class Person(models.Model):
    first_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    last_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    birth_date = models.DateField()

    def baby_boomer_status(self):
        "Returns the person's baby-boomer status."
        import datetime
        if self.birth_date < datetime.date(1945, 8, 1):
            return "Pre-boomer"
        elif self.birth_date < datetime.date(1965, 1, 1):
            return "Baby boomer"
        else:
            return "Post-boomer"

    @property
    def full_name(self):
        "Returns the person's full name."
        return '%s %s' % (self.first_name, self.last_name)
```

What is the difference of if it is there vs if it isn't?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In Django, `@property` is a decorator that allows you to define a method as a "getter" for a class attribute. When you use `@property` on a method, you can access it like an attribute of the class, rather than calling it like a method. 

In the example you provided, `full_name` is a property that returns the full name of a `Person` instance. Without `@property`, you would need to call the method like this: `person.full_name()`. But with `@property`, you can access it like an attribute: `person.full_name`.

The main benefit of using `@property` is that it allows you to define a computed attribute that behaves like a regular attribute, without having to change the way you access it. This can make your code more readable and easier to use.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

`@property` is a Python decorator that allows you to define a method as a property of an object. When you use `@property` decorator, you can access the method like an attribute, without calling it as a method. 

In the example you provided, `full_name` is a property of the `Person` model that returns the full name of the person. Without `@property`, `full_name` would be a regular method that you would need to call like `person.full_name()`. But with `@property`, you can access it like an attribute, like `person.full_name`.

Using `@property` can make your code more readable and easier to use. It can also help you avoid naming conflicts with other methods or attributes in your class.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In Django, `@property` is a decorator that allows you to define a method as a property of a model. When you use `@property` decorator on a method, it allows you to access the method as an attribute of the model instance, without calling it as a method.

In the example you provided, `full_name` is a property of the `Person` model. When you access `full_name` on an instance of the `Person` model, it returns the full name of the person as a string. Without the `@property` decorator, `full_name` would be a regular method and you would need to call it like `person.full_name()`.

So, the difference between using `@property` and not using it is that with `@property`, you can access the method as an attribute of the model instance, without calling it as a method. This can make your code more readable and easier to use.

--------
