
# Post \#69633803 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69633803/)

## Terraform Import of map resources

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 1344 (635/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-297

Created at 2021-10-19 15:35:58

Tags: `amazon-web-services` `dictionary` `amazon-s3` `terraform` `terraform-provider-aws`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've got a map variable that identifies existing s3 buckets:
```
resource "aws_s3_bucket" "bucket" {
  for_each = var.s3_replication
  bucket   = each.value.source
  #other configuration
}

variable "s3_replication" {
  description = "Map of buckets to replicate"
  type        = map
  default = {
    logs = {
      source = "logs_bucket",
      destination = "central_logs_bucket"
    },
    security = {
      source = "cloudtrail_bucket",
      destination = "central_security_bucket"
    }
  }
}
```

Since these buckets already exist, I am trying to import them and then apply the a configuration to them to update the resources. Unfortunately, I am not able to figure out how to do a terraform import on these. I've tried:
```
terraform import aws_s3_bucket.bucket["logs"] logs_bucket
terraform import aws_s3_bucket.bucket[logs] logs_bucket
terraform import aws_s3_bucket.bucket[0] logs_bucket
terraform import aws_s3_bucket.bucket[0].source logs_bucket
terraform import aws_s3_bucket.bucket[0[source]] logs_bucket
```

All failing with a different error. Any idea on how to import existing resources listed on a map?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The correct syntax for importing resources with `for_each` in Terraform is `module.name.resource_type.resource_name[\"key\"]`. In your case, you should use:

```
terraform import 'aws_s3_bucket.bucket["logs"]' logs_bucket
```

This command tells Terraform to import the existing S3 bucket named "logs_bucket" into your Terraform state, under the resource named "bucket" with the key "logs".

Please replace `logs_bucket` with the actual AWS S3 bucket ARN or bucket name.

Also, make sure you are running this command from the directory where your Terraform configuration files (.tf files) are located.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The correct syntax to import a resource that is created using `for_each` in Terraform is to use the key of the map in the import command. In your case, you should use:

```
terraform import 'aws_s3_bucket.bucket["logs"]' logs_bucket
terraform import 'aws_s3_bucket.bucket["security"]' cloudtrail_bucket
```

The key should be enclosed in double quotes and the entire resource address should be enclosed in single quotes. The second argument to the `terraform import` command is the ID of the resource in AWS. 

Please make sure that you have the correct permissions to access the S3 buckets and that the bucket names are correct.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The correct syntax for importing resources with `for_each` in Terraform is as follows:

```bash
terraform import 'aws_s3_bucket.bucket["logs"]' logs_bucket
```

The resource address must be in quotes and the map key must be in double quotes. 

So, for your case, you should be able to import the existing S3 buckets with the following commands:

```bash
terraform import 'aws_s3_bucket.bucket["logs"]' logs_bucket
terraform import 'aws_s3_bucket.bucket["security"]' cloudtrail_bucket
```

Remember to replace `logs_bucket` and `cloudtrail_bucket` with the actual AWS S3 bucket names.

--------
