
# Post \#63394364 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63394364/)

## ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'bs4' [BeautifulSoup]

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 7370 (476/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-260

Created at 2020-08-13 11:39:53

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `beautifulsoup`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was trying to run a simple python file using BeautifulSoup when I received the following error message in Atom.

I have already installed BeautifulSoup using the following command in my Macbook's terminal.
```
$ pip3 install beautifulsoup4
```

I want to note that I have both Python 2.7.10 and Python 3.8.5 installed. I looked at my installed modules, and I only see 'bs4' in the modules for python3 and not in python.
When I try to place  in Atom or PyCharm, both text editors say that the module  exist. Any help would be much appreciated, thank you.



```
import requests
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup
```



```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/lyons/Documents/scrape/scrape.py", line 2, in <module>
    from bs4 import BeautifulSoup
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'bs4'
[Finished in 2.237s]
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the Python interpreter you are using in Atom is not the same as the one you used to install BeautifulSoup. 

You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Check which version of Python you are using in Atom. You can do this by opening a terminal in Atom and running the command `which python`. This will give you the path to the Python interpreter that Atom is using.

2. Make sure that the path to the Python interpreter that Atom is using is the same as the one you used to install BeautifulSoup. You can check this by running the command `which python` in your terminal outside of Atom.

3. If the paths are different, you can try installing BeautifulSoup again using the same Python interpreter that Atom is using. You can do this by running the command `python -m pip install beautifulsoup4` in your terminal.

4. Alternatively, you can try changing the Python interpreter that Atom is using to the one that you used to install BeautifulSoup. You can do this by going to Atom's settings and selecting the correct Python interpreter under the "Packages" section.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the Python interpreter you are using in Atom is not the same as the one you used to install BeautifulSoup. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Check which version of Python you are using in Atom. You can do this by opening the terminal in Atom and running the following command:

```
python --version
```

This will tell you which version of Python is being used by Atom.

2. Install BeautifulSoup for the version of Python that Atom is using. If Atom is using Python 3, you can install BeautifulSoup by running the following command in the terminal:

```
pip3 install beautifulsoup4
```

If Atom is using Python 2, you can install BeautifulSoup by running the following command in the terminal:

```
pip install beautifulsoup4
```

3. Make sure that the Python interpreter you are using in Atom is the same as the one you used to install BeautifulSoup. You can check this by going to the Atom menu and selecting "Preferences". Then, go to the "Packages" tab and search for the "Script" package. Click on "Settings" and make sure that the "Interpreter" field is set to the correct Python interpreter.

4. Restart Atom and try running your Python file again. It should now be able to import BeautifulSoup without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the Python interpreter you are using in Atom is not the same one where you installed the BeautifulSoup module. 

To solve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Check which version of Python is being used in Atom. You can do this by opening the terminal in Atom and running the following command:

   ```
   $ which python
   ```

   This will give you the path of the Python interpreter being used in Atom.

2. Install the BeautifulSoup module for the Python version being used in Atom. For example, if the path from step 1 shows that Python 2.7.10 is being used, then run the following command in the terminal:

   ```
   $ sudo pip2 install beautifulsoup4
   ```

   If the path shows that Python 3.8.5 is being used, then run the following command:

   ```
   $ sudo pip3 install beautifulsoup4
   ```

3. Once the module is installed, try running your code again in Atom.

If the above steps do not work, you can try setting up a virtual environment in Atom and installing the required modules within the virtual environment. This will ensure that the correct version of Python and modules are being used.

--------
