
# Post \#55970686 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55970686/)

## Tensorboard not found as magic function in jupyter

**Vote**: 43 (145/702) **Views**: 31402 (226/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-284

Created at 2019-05-03 13:20:14

Tags: `python` `tensorflow` `tensorflow2.0` `tensorboard` `tensorflow2.x`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to run tensorboard in jupyter using the latest tensorflow 2.0.0a0. 
With the tensorboard version 1.13.1, and python 3.6. 

using 

`... %tensorboard --logdir {logs_base_dir}`

I get the error :

`UsageError: Line magic function %tensorboard not found`

Do you have an idea what the problem could be? It seems that all versions are up to date and the command seems correct too. 

Thanks


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The `%tensorboard` magic command is not a built-in command in Jupyter Notebook. It is provided by the `jupyter_tensorboard` extension, which needs to be installed separately. 

To install the `jupyter_tensorboard` extension, you can run the following command in your terminal:

```
pip install jupyter_tensorboard
```

After installing the extension, you can load it in your Jupyter Notebook by running the following command:

```
%load_ext tensorboard
```

Then, you can use the `%tensorboard` magic command to start TensorBoard:

```
%tensorboard --logdir {logs_base_dir}
```

Make sure that you have the latest version of TensorFlow installed as well.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `%tensorboard` magic command is not a built-in command in Jupyter Notebook. It is provided by the `jupyter_tensorboard` extension. 

To use `%tensorboard` command, you need to install the `jupyter_tensorboard` extension first. You can install it using the following command:

```
!pip install jupyter_tensorboard
```

After installing the extension, you need to load it using the following command:

```
%load_ext tensorboard
```

Then, you can use the `%tensorboard` command to launch TensorBoard in Jupyter Notebook.

Make sure that you have the latest version of TensorBoard installed. You can install it using the following command:

```
!pip install --upgrade tensorboard
```

I hope this helps!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The `%tensorboard` magic command is not a built-in command in Jupyter Notebook, so you need to install the `jupyter_tensorboard` extension to use it. Here are the steps to install and enable the extension:

1. Install the extension using pip:

   ```
   !pip install jupyter_tensorboard
   ```

2. Enable the extension in Jupyter Notebook:

   ```
   !jupyter serverextension enable --py jupyter_tensorboard
   ```

   ```
   !jupyter nbextension enable --py jupyter_tensorboard
   ```

3. Restart Jupyter Notebook.

After following these steps, you should be able to use the `%tensorboard` magic command to launch TensorBoard in Jupyter Notebook.

--------
