
# Post \#58386953 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58386953/)

## pip3 "TypeError: 'module' object is not callable" after update

**Vote**: 47 (131/702) **Views**: 19695 (307/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-262

Created at 2019-10-15 03:45:40

Tags: `python` `ubuntu` `pip`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am new in Python, I wanna install Jupyter Notebook in my console I enter the following:

```
pip3 install --upgrade pip
```


after that I have a error to use pip3 install other library, the console print: 

```
File "/usr/bin/pip3", line 11, in <module>
    sys.exit(main())
TypeError: 'module' object is not callable
```


I don't know what I have to do. 

I use `sudo autoremove python3-pip` after that I use `sudo apt install python3-pip`


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there might be an issue with your pip3 installation. You can try uninstalling and reinstalling pip3 to see if that resolves the issue. Here are the steps to do so:

1. Uninstall pip3 by running the following command:

   ```
   sudo apt-get remove python3-pip
   ```

2. Reinstall pip3 by running the following command:

   ```
   sudo apt-get install python3-pip
   ```

3. Once pip3 is installed, try running the following command to install Jupyter Notebook:

   ```
   pip3 install jupyter
   ```

If you still encounter issues, you can try running the following command to upgrade pip:

```
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

Then try installing Jupyter Notebook again using the command:

```
pip3 install jupyter
```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like there might be an issue with your pip3 installation. You can try uninstalling and reinstalling pip3 to see if that resolves the issue. Here are the steps to do so:

1. Uninstall pip3: `sudo apt-get remove python3-pip`
2. Reinstall pip3: `sudo apt-get install python3-pip`

After reinstalling pip3, try installing Jupyter Notebook again using the following command:

`pip3 install jupyter`

If you still encounter issues, you can try creating a virtual environment and installing Jupyter Notebook within the virtual environment. This can help isolate any potential conflicts with other packages. Here are the steps to create a virtual environment and install Jupyter Notebook within it:

1. Install virtualenv: `sudo apt-get install python3-virtualenv`
2. Create a virtual environment: `virtualenv myenv`
3. Activate the virtual environment: `source myenv/bin/activate`
4. Install Jupyter Notebook: `pip3 install jupyter`

Once Jupyter Notebook is installed, you can launch it by running the following command:

`jupyter notebook`

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like there may be an issue with your pip installation. You can try uninstalling and reinstalling pip to see if that resolves the issue. 

To uninstall pip, you can use the following command:

```
sudo apt-get remove python3-pip
```

After that, you can reinstall pip using the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install python3-pip
```

Once pip is reinstalled, you can try installing Jupyter Notebook again using the following command:

```
pip3 install jupyter
```

If you continue to have issues, you may want to try creating a virtual environment and installing Jupyter Notebook within that environment. This can help isolate any issues with your system's Python installation.

--------
