
# Post \#68680322 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68680322/)

## Pytube: urllib.error.HTTPError: HTTP Error 410: Gone

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 17996 (321/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-261

Created at 2021-08-06 10:46:21

Tags: `python` `http` `http-error` `pytube`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've been getting this error on several programs for now.
I've tried upgrading pytube, reinstalling it, tried some fixes, changed URLs and code, but nothing seems to work.
```
from pytube import YouTube

#ask for the link from user
link = input("Enter the link of YouTube video you want to download:  ")
yt = YouTube(link)

#Showing details
print("Title: ",yt.title)
print("Number of views: ",yt.views)
print("Length of video: ",yt.length)
print("Rating of video: ",yt.rating)
#Getting the highest resolution possible
ys = yt.streams.get_highest_resolution()

#Starting download
print("Downloading...")
ys.download()
print("Download completed!!")
```

and this is the error code:
```
File "C:\Users\Madjid\PycharmProjects\pythonProject\app2.py", line 6, in <module>
    yt = YouTube(link)
  File "C:\Users\Madjid\PycharmProjects\pythonProject\venv\lib\site-packages\pytube\__main__.py", line 91, in __init__
    self.prefetch()
  File "C:\Users\Madjid\PycharmProjects\pythonProject\venv\lib\site-packages\pytube\__main__.py", line 181, in prefetch
    self.vid_info_raw = request.get(self.vid_info_url)
  File "C:\Users\Madjid\PycharmProjects\pythonProject\venv\lib\site-packages\pytube\request.py", line 36, in get
    return _execute_request(url).read().decode("utf-8")
  File "C:\Users\Madjid\PycharmProjects\pythonProject\venv\lib\site-packages\pytube\request.py", line 24, in _execute_request
    return urlopen(request)  # nosec
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 214, in urlopen
    return opener.open(url, data, timeout)
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 523, in open
    response = meth(req, response)
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 632, in http_response
    response = self.parent.error(
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 555, in error
    result = self._call_chain(*args)
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 494, in _call_chain
    result = func(*args)
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 747, in http_error_302
    return self.parent.open(new, timeout=req.timeout)
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 523, in open
    response = meth(req, response)
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 632, in http_response
    response = self.parent.error(
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 561, in error
    return self._call_chain(*args)
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 494, in _call_chain
    result = func(*args)
  File "E:\Python\lib\urllib\request.py", line 641, in http_error_default
    raise HTTPError(req.full_url, code, msg, hdrs, fp)
urllib.error.HTTPError: HTTP Error 410: Gone
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is an HTTP 410 error, which means the resource you're trying to access is no longer available at the server, and no forwarding address is known. This condition is expected to be considered permanent.

This error is often encountered when using the `pytube` library due to changes in YouTube's backend. YouTube frequently updates its website, and these updates can break libraries like `pytube` that rely on the structure of YouTube's website.

The `pytube` library is maintained by volunteers and sometimes it takes a while for it to catch up with YouTube's changes. 

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Update `pytube` to the latest version.** You mentioned you've tried upgrading `pytube`, but make sure you're using the latest version. You can upgrade it using pip:

```bash
pip install pytube --upgrade
```

2. **Try using a different library.** If `pytube` isn't working for you, you might want to try a different library for downloading YouTube videos. For example, `youtube_dl` is a popular alternative.

3. **Check the GitHub issues for `pytube`.** If you're still having trouble, check the [issues on the `pytube` GitHub page](https://github.com/pytube/pytube/issues). Someone else might have encountered the same problem, and there might be a solution or workaround available.

4. **Wait for a fix.** If all else fails, you might just have to wait for a fix to be implemented in `pytube`. As I mentioned earlier, `pytube` is maintained by volunteers and sometimes it takes a while for it to catch up with YouTube's changes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The HTTP 410 Gone error means that the URL you're trying to access is no longer available on the server and there is no forwarding address. This is a client-side error, meaning either the webpage has been removed or moved and the URL was not changed accordingly, or that you typed in the URL incorrectly.

In your case, it seems like the pytube library is trying to access a URL that no longer exists. This is a known issue with the pytube library, as YouTube often changes its internal APIs, causing libraries like pytube to break.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Update pytube to the latest version**: You mentioned that you've tried upgrading pytube, but make sure you're using the latest version. You can do this with the following command:

```bash
pip install pytube --upgrade
```

2. **Try using pytube3**: pytube3 is a fork of pytube that is often updated more frequently. You can install it with the following command:

```bash
pip install pytube3
```

Then, you can use it in your code like this:

```python
from pytube3 import YouTube
```

3. **Try using another library**: If pytube continues to give you issues, you might want to try using another library for downloading YouTube videos, like youtube-dl.

4. **Check the URL**: Make sure the URL you're trying to download from is correct and accessible. You can do this by pasting the URL into your web browser and seeing if the video loads.

If none of these solutions work, it's possible that there's an issue with the pytube library itself. In this case, you might want to consider opening an issue on the pytube GitHub page.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message `HTTP Error 410: Gone` indicates that the URL you are trying to access is no longer available. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as the video being deleted or made private.

However, in your case, it seems like the error is related to the pytube library itself. Pytube is a lightweight, dependency-free Python library which is used for downloading videos from the web. It seems like the library is having trouble accessing the YouTube video.

This is a known issue with the pytube library, and it's usually caused by changes in the YouTube website that break the functionality of pytube. The library's maintainers usually release a fix for these issues, but it can take some time.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure you are using the latest version of pytube. You can update it using pip:

```bash
pip install pytube --upgrade
```

2. If you're already using the latest version, you can try downgrading to an older version. Sometimes, the latest version may have new bugs that were not present in older versions.

```bash
pip install pytube==9.5.3
```

3. If none of the above solutions work, you can try using a different library for downloading YouTube videos, such as `youtube_dl`.

```bash
pip install youtube_dl
```

Here is a sample code using `youtube_dl`:

```python
import youtube_dl

ydl_opts = {}

link = input("Enter the link of YouTube video you want to download:  ")

with youtube_dl.YoutubeDL(ydl_opts) as ydl:
    ydl.download([link])
```

Remember to replace `link` with the URL of the video you want to download.

--------
