
# Post \#71115542 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71115542/)

## How to repeat the input until a special condition is met in Python?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 2606 (586/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-286

Created at 2022-02-14 17:04:14

Tags: `python` `user-input` `try-except`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I need to take integer inputs from the user and add them to a set. The number of integers is unknown. The input process will end when the user input is "Done".
Here is my code:
```
s = set()
print('Please type the number, when you are done please type "Done":')
while True:
    try:
        a = int(input())
        s.add(a)
    except:
        if a == "Done":
            break
        else:
            print('Integer only, please re-type:')
            continue
print(s)
```

But it didn't work as intended.
My idea is simple. If the user types an integer then it's fine, just add to set `s`. If they type a string (which `int(input()` is wrong), then it will go down to `except`, if the string is "Done", then break the `while True` loop, if it isn't then ask the user to re-type and continue the loop.
Here is the error if I type a string first and if I type normally:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/yYTiP.png)
I tried to use a simple if-else statement at the start but it causes traceback right at `int(input())`.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue here is that when an exception occurs, the variable `a` doesn't get assigned any value because the line `a = int(input())` fails. So, when you try to check `if a == "Done":` in the exception block, it throws an error because `a` is not defined.

You should first take the input as a string, check if it is "Done", if not, then try to convert it to an integer. Here is the corrected code:

```python
s = set()
print('Please type the number, when you are done please type "Done":')
while True:
    a = input()
    if a == "Done":
        break
    try:
        a = int(a)
        s.add(a)
    except ValueError:
        print('Integer only, please re-type:')
        continue
print(s)
```

In this code, we first take the input as a string. If the input is "Done", we break the loop. If not, we try to convert the input to an integer. If the conversion fails (i.e., the input is not an integer), we catch the `ValueError` exception and ask the user to re-type the input. If the conversion is successful, we add the integer to the set.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The problem with your code is that the variable `a` is not defined when the user enters a non-integer value. This is because the `int(input())` function throws an exception before the value can be assigned to `a`. 

To fix this, you should first assign the user's input to `a` as a string, and then try to convert `a` to an integer. If the conversion fails, you can then check if `a` is equal to "Done". Here is the corrected code:

```python
s = set()
print('Please type the number, when you are done please type "Done":')
while True:
    a = input()
    try:
        a = int(a)
        s.add(a)
    except ValueError:
        if a == "Done":
            break
        else:
            print('Integer only, please re-type:')
            continue
print(s)
```

In this corrected code, the user's input is first assigned to `a` as a string. Then, the code attempts to convert `a` to an integer. If the conversion is successful, the integer is added to the set `s`. If the conversion fails (i.e., if the user entered a non-integer value), the code checks if `a` is equal to "Done". If `a` is "Done", the loop breaks. If `a` is not "Done", the code prints a message asking the user to re-enter an integer, and then continues to the next iteration of the loop.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue here is that when the `int(input())` throws an exception, the variable `a` is not assigned any value. So, when you try to check `if a == "Done":` in the `except` block, it throws a `UnboundLocalError` because `a` is not defined at that point.

You can solve this by first taking the input as a string, then trying to convert it to an integer. If the conversion fails, you can then check if the input string is "Done". Here's how you can do it:

```python
s = set()
print('Please type the number, when you are done please type "Done":')
while True:
    a = input()
    try:
        a = int(a)
        s.add(a)
    except ValueError:
        if a == "Done":
            break
        else:
            print('Integer only, please re-type:')
            continue
print(s)
```

In this code, `a` is first assigned the input string. Then we try to convert `a` to an integer. If this fails, we go to the `except` block where we can safely check if `a == "Done"` because `a` is guaranteed to have a value.

--------
