
# Post \#57150426 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57150426/)

## What is print(f"...")

**Vote**: 114 (48/702) **Views**: 326901 (19/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-263

Created at 2019-07-22 16:46:51

Tags: `python`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am reading through a python script that takes an input of XML files and outputs an XML file. However, I do not understand the printing syntax. Can someone please explain what `f` in `print(f"...")` does?

```
args = parser.parser_args()

print(f"Input directory: {args.input_directory}")
print(f"Output directory: {args.output_directory}")
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `f` in `print(f"...")` is used for formatting strings in Python, it's called f-string formatting. It was introduced in Python 3.6.

The f-string formatting lets you include the value of Python expressions inside string literals, using curly braces `{}`. The expressions will be replaced with their values. The letter "f" also indicates that these strings are of type `f-string`.

In your code, `args.input_directory` and `args.output_directory` are Python expressions. Their values will be inserted in place of `{args.input_directory}` and `{args.output_directory}` respectively.

So, if `args.input_directory` is "/home/user/input" and `args.output_directory` is "/home/user/output", the print statements will output:

```
Input directory: /home/user/input
Output directory: /home/user/output
```

This is a very convenient way to build strings.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `f` before the string in the `print` function is used to create what's called an f-string (formatted string literal) in Python. It's a way to embed expressions inside string literals, using curly braces `{}`. The expressions will be replaced with their values when the string is printed.

In your example, `args.input_directory` and `args.output_directory` are expressions that get evaluated and their results are inserted into the string.

So if `args.input_directory` is `/home/user/input` and `args.output_directory` is `/home/user/output`, the print statements would output:

```
Input directory: /home/user/input
Output directory: /home/user/output
```

The `f` in `print(f"...")` is a way to format strings in Python 3.6 and above. It's a newer, more readable way to format strings compared to the older `%` or `str.format()` methods.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `f` before the string in the `print` function is used to create what's called an f-string (formatted string literal) in Python. It's a way to embed expressions inside string literals, using curly braces `{}`. The expressions will be replaced with their values when the string is printed.

In your example:

```python
print(f"Input directory: {args.input_directory}")
print(f"Output directory: {args.output_directory}")
```

`{args.input_directory}` and `{args.output_directory}` are expressions. When the string is printed, these expressions are replaced with the values of `args.input_directory` and `args.output_directory` respectively.

So if `args.input_directory` is `/home/user/input` and `args.output_directory` is `/home/user/output`, the printed strings will be:

```
Input directory: /home/user/input
Output directory: /home/user/output
```

F-strings are a feature in Python 3.6 and later. They are a concise and convenient way to embed expressions inside string literals for formatting.

--------
