
# Post \#71753428 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71753428/)

## How to get SHAP values for each class on a multiclass classification problem in python

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 6521 (491/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-290

Created at 2022-04-05 14:21:03

Tags: `python` `python-3.x` `machine-learning` `xgboost` `shap`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have the following dataframe:
```
import pandas as pd
import random

import xgboost
import shap

foo = pd.DataFrame({'id':[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10],
                   'var1':random.sample(range(1, 100), 10),
                   'var2':random.sample(range(1, 100), 10),
                   'var3':random.sample(range(1, 100), 10),
                   'class': ['a','a','a','a','a','b','b','c','c','c']})
```

For which I want to run a classification algorithm in order to predict the 3 `class`es
So I split my dataset into train and test and I run an xgboost
```
cl_cols = foo.filter(regex='var').columns
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(foo[cl_cols],
                                                        foo[['class']],
                                                        test_size=0.33, random_state=42)


model = xgboost.XGBClassifier(objective="binary:logistic")
model.fit(X_train, y_train)
```

Now I would like to get the mean SHAP values , instead of the mean from the  SHAP values generated from this code:
```
shap_values = shap.TreeExplainer(model).shap_values(X_test)
shap.summary_plot(shap_values, X_test)
```

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/DsAik.png)
Also, the plot labels the `class` as 0,1,2. How can I know to which `class` from the original do the 0,1 & 2 correspond ?
Because this code:
```
shap.summary_plot(shap_values, X_test,
                 class_names= ['a', 'b', 'c'])
```

gives
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/SR1ju.png)
and this code:
```
shap.summary_plot(shap_values, X_test,
                 class_names= ['b', 'c', 'a'])
```

gives
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Z1s0M.png)
So I am not sure about the legend anymore.
Any ideas ?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `class_names` parameter in `shap.summary_plot` does not change the order of the classes, it just changes the labels. The order of the classes is determined by the model itself. In the case of XGBoost, the classes are ordered by their encoded numerical value. 

In your case, the classes are encoded as follows: 'a' -> 0, 'b' -> 1, 'c' -> 2. This is because when you fit the model, the classes are automatically encoded in alphabetical order. 

If you want to be sure about the order of the classes, you can check the `classes_` attribute of the model after fitting it:

```python
print(model.classes_)
```

This will print the classes in the order used by the model.

Regarding the mean SHAP values, you can calculate them by taking the mean of the absolute SHAP values for each feature:

```python
mean_shap_values = np.mean(np.abs(shap_values), axis=0)
```

This will give you a 1D array with the mean absolute SHAP value for each feature. If you want to create a DataFrame with the feature names and their corresponding mean SHAP values, you can do the following:

```python
mean_shap_values_df = pd.DataFrame(mean_shap_values, columns=['Mean SHAP Value'])
mean_shap_values_df['Feature'] = X_test.columns
```

This will give you a DataFrame with the mean SHAP values for each feature.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

To get the mean SHAP values, you can use the `shap_values` object which is a list of arrays. Each array corresponds to a class and contains the SHAP values for each instance in the test set. You can calculate the mean SHAP value for each feature for each class by averaging over the instances.

Here's how you can do it:

```python
import numpy as np

# calculate mean SHAP values for each feature for each class
mean_shap_values = [np.mean(values, axis=0) for values in shap_values]

# create a DataFrame for easier viewing
mean_shap_values_df = pd.DataFrame(mean_shap_values, columns=X_test.columns)
```

The `mean_shap_values_df` DataFrame now contains the mean SHAP values for each feature for each class.

As for the class labels, the order of the classes in the `shap_values` list is the same as the order of the classes in the model's `classes_` attribute. You can check this order with `model.classes_`.

The `class_names` parameter in `shap.summary_plot` is used to rename the classes in the plot, but it doesn't change the order of the classes. So, the first class in `model.classes_` corresponds to the first class in `class_names`, the second class in `model.classes_` corresponds to the second class in `class_names`, and so on.

Here's how you can check the order of the classes:

```python
print(model.classes_)
```

This will print something like `['a', 'b', 'c']` or `['b', 'c', 'a']`, depending on how the classes were ordered in your dataset. You should use this order when specifying `class_names` in `shap.summary_plot`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

To get the mean SHAP values, you can use the numpy library's mean function. Here's how you can do it:

```python
import numpy as np

mean_shap_values = np.mean(shap_values, axis=0)
```

This will give you the mean SHAP values for each feature across all the samples in your test set.

As for the class labels, the XGBoost model automatically converts the class labels to integers starting from 0. The order of the classes is the same as the order in which they appear in your y_train data. 

You can check the order of the classes using the classes_ attribute of the XGBoost model after fitting it:

```python
print(model.classes_)
```

This will print an array of the class labels in the order used by the model. So, if it prints ['a', 'b', 'c'], then in your SHAP summary plot, 0 corresponds to 'a', 1 corresponds to 'b', and 2 corresponds to 'c'.

If you want to use the original class labels in the SHAP summary plot, you can create a dictionary mapping the integer labels to the original labels and pass it to the class_names parameter:

```python
class_names_dict = {i: label for i, label in enumerate(model.classes_)}
shap.summary_plot(shap_values, X_test, class_names=class_names_dict)
```

This will use the original class labels in the SHAP summary plot.

--------
