
# Post \#55970686 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55970686/)

## Tensorboard not found as magic function in jupyter

**Vote**: 43 (145/702) **Views**: 31402 (226/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-284

Created at 2019-05-03 13:20:14

Tags: `python` `tensorflow` `tensorflow2.0` `tensorboard` `tensorflow2.x`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to run tensorboard in jupyter using the latest tensorflow 2.0.0a0. 
With the tensorboard version 1.13.1, and python 3.6. 

using 

`... %tensorboard --logdir {logs_base_dir}`

I get the error :

`UsageError: Line magic function %tensorboard not found`

Do you have an idea what the problem could be? It seems that all versions are up to date and the command seems correct too. 

Thanks


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing suggests that the `%tensorboard` line magic function isn't available in your current environment. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. TensorBoard's Jupyter magic was not available until TensorBoard 1.14. So, you might need to upgrade your TensorBoard to a later version. You can do this using pip:

    ```
    pip install --upgrade tensorboard
    ```

2. The TensorBoard Jupyter magic is not automatically loaded when you start Jupyter. You need to load it manually using the `%load_ext` command:

    ```
    %load_ext tensorboard
    ```

    After running this command, you should be able to use the `%tensorboard` line magic.

3. If you're using a Jupyter notebook, ensure that you're running the `%tensorboard` command in a code cell, not in a markdown cell or in the terminal.

If you've checked all of these and you're still having issues, it might be worth checking whether there are any known issues with the specific versions of TensorBoard, TensorFlow, and Jupyter that you're using.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing suggests that the `%tensorboard` line magic function is not found. This is likely because the TensorBoard magic is not available in your current environment.

The TensorBoard magic was added in TensorBoard 1.14.0, and you're using TensorBoard 1.13.1. Therefore, you need to upgrade your TensorBoard to a newer version. You can do this by running the following command:

```python
!pip install --upgrade tensorboard
```

After upgrading TensorBoard, you should be able to use the `%tensorboard` line magic in your Jupyter notebook.

If you still encounter issues after upgrading, you can try loading the TensorBoard notebook extension explicitly with the following command:

```python
%load_ext tensorboard
```

Then you should be able to start TensorBoard with the `%tensorboard` command:

```python
%tensorboard --logdir {logs_base_dir}
```

Remember to replace `{logs_base_dir}` with the actual path to your logs directory.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing suggests that the `%tensorboard` magic function is not found. This is likely because the TensorBoard Jupyter magic was not available until TensorBoard 1.14.0. Since you're using TensorBoard 1.13.1, you won't have access to this feature.

To solve this problem, you should upgrade your TensorBoard to a version 1.14.0 or later. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
pip install --upgrade tensorboard
```

After upgrading TensorBoard, you should be able to use the `%tensorboard` magic in your Jupyter notebook.

If you still encounter issues after upgrading, you can try loading TensorBoard using the following code:

```python
%load_ext tensorboard
%tensorboard --logdir {logs_base_dir}
```

The first line loads the TensorBoard extension and the second line runs TensorBoard within your notebook.

--------
