
# Post \#72452854 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72452854/)

## How to sum across n elements of numpy array

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 1212 (646/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-304

Created at 2022-05-31 18:54:25

Tags: `python` `arrays` `numpy` `sum`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I hope that someone can help me with my problem since I'm not used to python and numpy yet. I have the following array with 24 elements:
```
load = np.array([10, 12, 9, 13, 17, 23, 25, 28, 26, 24, 22, 20, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 23, 24, 21, 18, 16, 13])
```

I want to create a new array with the same length as "load" and calculate for each element in the array the sum of the current and the next two numbers, so that my objective array would look like this:
```
[31, 34, 39, 53, 65, 76, 79, 78, 72, 66, 60, 58, 60, 66, 72, 78, 77, 75, 68, 63, 55, 47, 29, 13]
```

I tried to solve this with the following code:
```
output = np.empty(len(load))
for i in range((len(output))-2):
    output[i] = load[i]+load[i+1]+load[i+2]
print(output)
```

The output array looks like this:
```
array([31. , 34. , 39. , 53. , 65. , 76. , 79. , 78. , 72. , 66. , 60. ,
       58. , 60. , 66. , 72. , 78. , 77. , 75. , 68. , 63. , 55. , 47. ,
        6. ,  4.5])
```

The last two numbers are not right. For the 23th element I want the sum of just 16 and 13 and for the last number to stay 13 since the array ends there. I don't unterstand how python calculated these numbers. Also I would prefer the numbers to be integers without the dot.
Does anyone have a better solution in mind? I know that this probably is easy to solve, I just don't know all the functionalities of numpy.
Thank you very much!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Your code is almost correct. The issue is with the range of the loop. You are iterating over the length of the output array minus 2, which means that the last two elements are not being updated correctly. To fix this, you can change the range to iterate over the length of the input array minus 2. Also, you can use the `astype` method to convert the output array to integers.

Here's the corrected code:

```
output = np.empty(len(load))
for i in range(len(load)-2):
    output[i] = load[i]+load[i+1]+load[i+2]
output[-2:] = load[-2:]
output = output.astype(int)
print(output)
```

This should give you the desired output:

```
[31 34 39 53 65 76 79 78 72 66 60 58 60 66 72 78 77 75 68 63 55 47 29 13]
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Your code is almost correct, but you need to adjust the range of the loop to avoid accessing elements outside the array. You can also use the `astype` method to convert the output to integers. Here's the corrected code:

```
output = np.empty(len(load))
for i in range(len(output)):
    if i <= len(output)-3:
        output[i] = load[i]+load[i+1]+load[i+2]
    else:
        output[i] = load[i]
output = output.astype(int)
print(output)
```

This will give you the desired output:

```
[31 34 39 53 65 76 79 78 72 66 60 58 60 66 72 78 77 75 68 63 55 47 29 13]
```

The `if` statement checks if the current index is within the range of the array, and only calculates the sum if it is. Otherwise, it just copies the value from the original array. The `astype` method converts the output to integers.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Your code is almost correct. The problem is that you are iterating over the whole length of the output array, but you only want to iterate until the third to last element. You can fix this by changing the range to `range(len(output)-2)`.

Also, the last two elements of the output array are incorrect because you are not handling the case where there are not enough elements to sum up. You can fix this by setting the last two elements of the output array to the last two elements of the input array.

Here's the corrected code:

```
output = np.empty(len(load))
for i in range(len(output)-2):
    output[i] = load[i]+load[i+1]+load[i+2]
output[-2:] = load[-2:]
output = output.astype(int)
print(output)
```

This should give you the desired output:

```
[31 34 39 53 65 76 79 78 72 66 60 58 60 66 72 78 77 75 68 63 55 47 29 13]
```

--------
