
# Post \#65593796 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65593796/)

## Coverting all the list elements to string using Python?

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 5065 (520/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-242

Created at 2021-01-06 10:08:59

Tags: `python` `string` `list`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a list:
```
roll = [1, 2, 3]
```

For converting each of the element into a string, can we directly do `roll = str(roll)` rather that iterating over it and calling `str()` on each element? Is this a correct way?
I am new to Python, any hint in the right direction will do!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

No, you cannot directly convert the entire list to a string using `str(roll)`. This will only convert the list object itself to a string, not the individual elements within the list. 

To convert each element in the list to a string, you will need to iterate over the list and call `str()` on each element. Here's an example:

```
roll = [1, 2, 3]
roll_str = [str(num) for num in roll]
```

This will create a new list `roll_str` with the string representation of each element in `roll`. The output will be:

```
['1', '2', '3']
```

Hope this helps!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

No, you cannot directly convert the entire list to a string using the `str()` function. If you try to do so, you will get a string representation of the list itself, not the individual elements as strings.

To convert each element of the list to a string, you need to iterate over the list and call `str()` on each element. Here's an example:

```
roll = [1, 2, 3]
roll_str = [str(i) for i in roll]
```

This will create a new list `roll_str` containing the string representation of each element in `roll`. You can then use `roll_str` as needed in your program.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

No, you cannot directly convert the entire list to a string using `str(roll)`. This will only convert the list object itself to a string, not the individual elements within the list. 

To convert each element in the list to a string, you will need to iterate over the list and call `str()` on each element. One way to do this is by using a list comprehension:

```
roll = [1, 2, 3]
roll = [str(i) for i in roll]
```

This will create a new list where each element is a string representation of the corresponding element in the original list. The resulting `roll` list will be `['1', '2', '3']`.

--------
