
# Post \#53004311 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53004311/)

## How to add conda environment to jupyter lab

**Vote**: 183 (23/702) **Views**: 131075 (63/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-273

Created at 2018-10-26 08:13:26

Tags: `python` `anaconda` `jupyter-notebook` `jupyter-lab`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm using Jupyter Lab and I'm having trouble to add `conda` environment. The idea is to launch Jupyter Lab from my base environment, and then to be able to choose my other conda envs as kernels.

I installed the package `nb_conda_kernels` which is supposed to do just that, but it's not working as I want. Indeed, let's assume I create a new Conda Environment, then I launch jupyter lab from base, I can't see the new environment as an available kernel.

I have found a "fix", which works everytime but is not convenient at all. If I install Jupyter Notebook in my new environment, then launch a jupyter notebook from this new environment, close it, go back to base environment, and then launch Jupyter Lab from base environment, my new environment is available as a kernel in Jupyter Lab.

If you know how to make it work without this "fix", I would be very grateful.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you are facing is quite common and can be resolved by following these steps:

1. First, make sure that you have installed `ipykernel` in your new environment. You can do this by activating your environment and then installing `ipykernel`:

    ```bash
    conda activate myenv
    conda install ipykernel
    ```

2. Next, you need to add your new environment to Jupyter. You can do this by running the following command:

    ```bash
    python -m ipykernel install --user --name=myenv
    ```

    Replace `myenv` with the name of your environment. This command will add your environment to Jupyter.

3. Now, you should be able to see your new environment as a kernel in Jupyter Lab. If you still can't see it, try restarting Jupyter Lab.

Remember, you need to do this for each new environment you create. This process ensures that Jupyter is aware of your new environments and can use them as kernels.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're experiencing might be due to the fact that the new environment's kernel isn't being registered with Jupyter. Here's a more convenient way to add a new environment as a kernel:

1. First, activate your new environment:
   ```
   conda activate myenv
   ```
2. Then, install the `ipykernel` module in your new environment:
   ```
   conda install ipykernel
   ```
3. Now, you need to add your new environment to Jupyter:
   ```
   python -m ipykernel install --user --name=myenv
   ```
   Replace `myenv` with the name of your environment. This command adds your environment to the list of available kernels.

4. Finally, deactivate your environment:
   ```
   conda deactivate
   ```
Now, when you start Jupyter Lab from your base environment, you should see your new environment listed as an available kernel.

Remember, you need to install the necessary packages in your new environment to be able to use them in Jupyter Lab. If you want to use a package like numpy, for example, you need to install it in your new environment while it's activated (`conda install numpy`).

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue you're facing is common when trying to use different conda environments as kernels in Jupyter Lab. Here are the steps to make it work:

1. First, make sure you have `ipykernel` installed in your base environment. If not, install it using `conda install ipykernel`.

2. Create your new environment and install `ipykernel` in it as well. For example, if your new environment is named `myenv`, you would do:

    ```bash
    conda activate myenv
    conda install ipykernel
    ```

3. While still in your new environment (`myenv`), run the following command to add your new environment to the list of available kernels:

    ```bash
    python -m ipykernel install --user --name=myenv
    ```

    This command will add `myenv` to the list of kernels available in Jupyter Lab.

4. Now, deactivate your new environment and go back to your base environment:

    ```bash
    conda deactivate
    ```

5. Launch Jupyter Lab from your base environment. You should now be able to see `myenv` in the list of available kernels.

Remember, every time you create a new environment that you want to use in Jupyter Lab, you need to install `ipykernel` in it and run the `ipykernel install` command.

--------
