
# Post \#49324802 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49324802/)

## pip always fails ssl verification

**Vote**: 44 (143/702) **Views**: 127454 (67/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-302

Created at 2018-03-16 15:50:09

Tags: `ssl` `pip`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Pip always fails ssl even when I do `pip install dedupe` or `pip install --trusted-host pypi.python.org dedupe`

The output is always the same no matter what:

> Collecting dedupeRetrying (Retry(total=4, connect=None, read=None,
  redirect=None, status=None)) after connection broken by
  'SSLError(SSLError(1, '[SSL: CERTIFICATE_VERIFY_FAILED] certificate
  verify failed (_ssl.c:777)'),)': /simple/dedupe/
  Retrying...skippingCould not find a version that satisfies the requirement dedupe (from versions: ) No matching distribution found for dedupe

So I uninstalled anaconda and reinstalled it. Same thing.

Do you think the problem is that my _ssl.c file (which I have no idea where it is) must be corrupt or something? Why would pip need to reference that if I'm telling it to bypass ssl verification anyway?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the issue is related to SSL verification. One possible solution is to update the SSL certificates on your system. You can try the following steps:

1. Download the latest SSL certificates from the certifi package by running the following command:

   ```
   pip install --upgrade certifi
   ```

2. Set the SSL_CERT_FILE environment variable to point to the location of the new certificates. For example, on Windows, you can run the following command:

   ```
   set SSL_CERT_FILE=C:\Python37\Lib\site-packages\certifi\cacert.pem
   ```

   On Linux or macOS, you can run:

   ```
   export SSL_CERT_FILE=/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/certifi/cacert.pem
   ```

3. Try running the pip install command again.

If the above steps don't work, you can try disabling SSL verification altogether by running the following command:

```
pip install --trusted-host pypi.org --trusted-host files.pythonhosted.org dedupe --disable-pip-version-check --no-cache-dir
```

This will bypass SSL verification and install the package. However, keep in mind that disabling SSL verification can be a security risk, so it's not recommended to do this on a regular basis.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It's possible that the SSL certificate verification is failing because your system's SSL certificates are out of date or missing. You can try updating your SSL certificates by following these steps:

1. Download the latest version of the certifi package by running `pip install --upgrade certifi`.
2. Locate the certifi package on your system by running `python -c "import certifi; print(certifi.where())"`.
3. Copy the path to the certifi package.
4. Set the SSL_CERT_FILE environment variable to the path of the certifi package by running `export SSL_CERT_FILE=/path/to/certifi/cacert.pem` (replace `/path/to/certifi/cacert.pem` with the actual path to the cacert.pem file in the certifi package).

After setting the SSL_CERT_FILE environment variable, try running `pip install dedupe` or `pip install --trusted-host pypi.python.org dedupe` again and see if it works.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the issue is related to SSL verification. One possible solution is to update the SSL certificates on your system. You can try the following steps:

1. Download the latest SSL certificates from the official website: https://curl.haxx.se/docs/caextract.html

2. Save the downloaded file as `cacert.pem` in a directory on your system.

3. Set the `SSL_CERT_FILE` environment variable to the path of the `cacert.pem` file. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

   `export SSL_CERT_FILE=/path/to/cacert.pem`

4. Try running the `pip install` command again.

If this doesn't work, you can try upgrading your version of pip by running `pip install --upgrade pip`. If that still doesn't work, you can try using a different package manager like conda or easy_install.

--------
