
# Post \#60739653 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60739653/)

## Gdown is giving Permission error for particular file,although it is opening up fine manually

**Vote**: 23 (239/702) **Views**: 22444 (279/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-189

Created at 2020-03-18 12:31:53

Tags: `python` `google-drive-api`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am not able to download file using gdown package.It is giving permission error.
But when i am opening it manually.It is giving no such error and opening up fine.
Here is the code i am using and link

```
import gdown
url='https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B1lRQVLFjBRNR3Jqam1menVtZnc'
output='letter.pdf'
gdown.download(url, output, quiet=False)
```


Error is 
Permission denied: [https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B1lRQVLFjBRNR3Jqam1menVtZnc](https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B1lRQVLFjBRNR3Jqam1menVtZnc)
Maybe you need to change permission over 'Anyone with the link'?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that the file on Google Drive may not have the correct sharing settings. The file needs to be set to be accessible by "Anyone with the link". 

Here are the steps to change the permission:

1. Open Google Drive and find the file you want to share.
2. Right-click on the file and select "Share".
3. In the pop-up window, click on "Change to anyone with the link".
4. In the dropdown menu, select "Anyone with the link".
5. Click "Done".

If you have already done this and still getting the error, it might be because the file is in a folder and the folder's sharing settings are overriding the file's sharing settings. In this case, you need to change the sharing settings of the folder as well.

If you have done all these and still facing the issue, then it might be a problem with the gdown package itself. You can try to update the gdown package to the latest version using pip:

```python
pip install gdown --upgrade
```

If none of these work, you might want to consider using another method to download the file, such as the requests library in Python.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that the file you are trying to download from Google Drive does not have the correct permissions set. You need to ensure that the file is shared publicly, i.e., "Anyone with the link" can view it.

Here are the steps to change the sharing settings of a file on Google Drive:

1. Open Google Drive and find the file you want to share.
2. Right-click the file and select "Share".
3. In the "Share with people and groups" window, click on "Change to anyone with the link".
4. In the next dropdown, select "Anyone with the link".
5. Make sure the access is set to "Viewer". This allows anyone with the link to view the file.
6. Click "Done".

After you've done this, try running your code again. If the file is shared correctly, gdown should be able to download it.

If you still encounter the same error, it might be due to the fact that the file is located in a shared drive. Files in shared drives have different sharing policies and might not be accessible even if they are set to "Anyone with the link". If this is the case, you might need to move the file to your personal drive and share it from there.

If none of these solutions work, please provide more details about the error and the file you are trying to download.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message suggests that the file you are trying to download from Google Drive does not have the necessary permissions set for public access. 

However, if you are able to access the file manually without any issues, it might be a problem with the way the gdown package is trying to access the file.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check the file permissions on Google Drive**: Make sure the file is set to be accessible by "Anyone with the link". You can change this setting by right-clicking on the file in Google Drive, selecting "Get shareable link", and then ensuring that the link sharing setting is set to "Anyone with the link can view". 

2. **Try using the 'share' link instead of the 'uc' link**: The 'uc' link is used for direct downloads, but it might be causing issues with the gdown package. Try using the 'share' link instead. You can get this link by right-clicking on the file in Google Drive and selecting "Get shareable link". The link should look something like this: 'https://drive.google.com/file/d/FILE_ID/view?usp=sharing'. You can extract the FILE_ID from this link and use it in your code like this:

```python
import gdown
url='https://drive.google.com/uc?id=FILE_ID'
output='letter.pdf'
gdown.download(url, output, quiet=False)
```

3. **Try running your script with elevated permissions**: Sometimes, the issue might be with your script not having the necessary permissions to write the downloaded file to disk. Try running your script with elevated permissions (e.g., using `sudo` on Linux).

4. **Check if gdown is updated**: Make sure you are using the latest version of gdown. You can update it using pip:

```bash
pip install gdown --upgrade
```

If none of these solutions work, the issue might be with the gdown package itself. In that case, you might want to consider using a different method to download files from Google Drive in your Python script, such as the Google Drive API.

--------
