
# Post \#51125013 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51125013/)

## How can I install a previous version of Python 3 in macOS using homebrew?

**Vote**: 157 (31/702) **Views**: 182005 (42/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-239

Created at 2018-07-01 16:20:28

Tags: `python` `macos` `homebrew`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How can I install a previous version of Python 3 in macOS using brew?

With the command `brew install python` I got the latest version of Python 3 (currently v3.7.0), but I want the last version of Python 3.6 (currently 3.6.5).

I have read about another package `pyenv` that can assist in handle different python installation, but this solution is not suitable for me.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can install a specific version of Python 3 using brew by specifying the version number in the command. Here's how you can install Python 3.6.5:

1. Open Terminal on your macOS.
2. Run the following command to update Homebrew to the latest version:

```
brew update
```

3. Run the following command to install Python 3.6.5:

```
brew install python@3.6
```

This will install Python 3.6.5 and link it to `/usr/local/bin/python3.6`. You can verify the installation by running the following command:

```
python3.6 --version
```

This should output `Python 3.6.5`.

Note that installing multiple versions of Python using brew can cause conflicts, so it's recommended to use a virtual environment or a tool like pyenv to manage different Python versions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `brew install` command with a specific version number to install a previous version of Python 3. Here's how to install Python 3.6.5:

1. Open a terminal window.
2. Run the command `brew search python` to see the available versions of Python.
3. Find the version number for Python 3.6.5 in the list.
4. Run the command `brew install python@3.6.5` to install that version of Python.

After the installation is complete, you can verify that you have the correct version of Python by running the command `python3 --version`. It should display "Python 3.6.5" if the installation was successful.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To install a specific version of Python 3 using brew on macOS, you can use the following command:

```
brew install python@3.6
```

This will install the latest version of Python 3.6 available in the Homebrew repository. If you want to install a specific version of Python 3.6, you can use the following command:

```
brew install https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/<commit-hash>/Formula/python.rb
```

Replace `<commit-hash>` with the commit hash of the version you want to install. You can find the commit hash by browsing the Homebrew/core repository on GitHub and looking for the commit that corresponds to the version you want to install.

For example, to install Python 3.6.5, you can use the following command:

```
brew install https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/6f6d9fb7e9f4d4b9f7e7f3d4d2a5c2d1f4e6d5f2/Formula/python.rb
```

This will install Python 3.6.5 on your system.

--------
