
# Post \#70374346 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70374346/)

## How to remove special characters from rows in pandas dataframe

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 1419 (628/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-218

Created at 2021-12-16 05:44:58

Tags: `python` `pandas` `dataframe`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a column in pandas data frame like the one shown below;
```
LGA

Alpine (S)
Ararat (RC)
Ballarat (C)
Banyule (C)
Bass Coast (S)
Baw Baw (S)
Bayside (C)
Benalla (RC)
Boroondara (C)
```

What I want to do, is to remove all the special characters from the ending of each row. ie. (S), (RC).
Desired output should be;
LGA
```
Alpine
Ararat
Ballarat
Banyule
Bass Coast
Baw Baw
Bayside
Benalla
Boroondara
```

I am not quite sure how to get desired output mentioned above.
Any help would be appreciated.
Thanks


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `str.replace()` function in pandas to replace the special characters. Here is a way to do it using a regular expression that matches anything in parentheses:

```python
df['LGA'] = df['LGA'].str.replace(r"\(.*\)", "")
```

This will replace anything within parentheses, including the parentheses themselves, with an empty string, effectively removing them.

Please note that from pandas 1.0.0, the `inplace` parameter is deprecated, so you need to assign the result back to the column.

Also, the `str.replace()` function by default replaces all occurrences of the pattern. If you know that the parentheses are only at the end of the string, you can use the `$` symbol in the regular expression to match the end of the string, like this: `r"\(.*\)$"`. This will only remove the parentheses and their contents if they are at the end of the string.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `str.replace()` function in pandas to replace the special characters. In your case, you want to replace everything from the opening parenthesis '(' to the end of the string. Here is how you can do it:

```python
df['LGA'] = df['LGA'].str.replace(r'\(.*$', '', regex=True)
```

This code will replace everything from the opening parenthesis '(' to the end of the string with an empty string '', effectively removing it. The `r` before the string makes it a raw string, which treats backslashes as literal characters. The `.*$` is a regular expression that matches any character (`.`) any number of times (`*`), up to the end of the string (`$`). The `regex=True` argument tells pandas to treat the string as a regular expression.

After running this code, your 'LGA' column should have the desired format.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `str.replace` function in pandas to replace the special characters with an empty string. In your case, you can use a regular expression to match the pattern of the special characters you want to remove. Here is an example:

```python
import pandas as pd

# Assuming df is your DataFrame and 'LGA' is your column
df['LGA'] = df['LGA'].str.replace(r'\s\(\w+\)$', '', regex=True)
```

In this code, `r'\s\(\w+\)$'` is a regular expression that matches a space followed by any word inside parentheses at the end of a string. The `replace` function replaces this pattern with an empty string `''`, effectively removing it from your strings.

Please note that this code will only remove the special characters at the end of your strings. If there are special characters in the middle of your strings, they will not be removed.

--------
