
# Post \#65907365 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65907365/)

## tensorflow: Not creating XLA devices, tf_xla_enable_xla_devices not set

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 26048 (255/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-267

Created at 2021-01-26 18:43:01

Tags: `python` `tensorflow`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I run drive.py program from [Code Project | A Complete guide to self driving car](https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/1273179/A-Complete-guide-to-self-driving-Car?fbclid=IwAR1L7mOaPTZ7-vwWicXcAS7FLhVLcU9BUgaivhK0P9tbXAGe0zOThAuktMs)
but when i start program i have error:
Not creating XLA devices, tf_xla_enable_xla_devices not set
Does anyone know how I can fix this problem? What should I download or reinstall?
I use:
Python 3.8.7
CUDA 11.0
tensorflow 2.4.1
On [http://0.0.0.0:4567/](http://0.0.0.0:4567/) of course I see nothing
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/3pXqE.jpg)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The message "Not creating XLA devices, tf_xla_enable_xla_devices not set" is not an error but a warning from TensorFlow 2.4.1. This is because TensorFlow 2.4.1 has XLA (Accelerated Linear Algebra) support but it's not enabled by default. XLA is a domain-specific compiler for linear algebra that can further optimize TensorFlow computations.

However, this warning should not prevent your program from running. If your program is not running, the issue lies elsewhere.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check your code for any errors. Make sure all the required files and dependencies are in place.

2. Ensure that your server is running correctly. The URL http://0.0.0.0:4567/ suggests that you are running a local server. Make sure that the server is started correctly and is not being blocked by any firewall or security settings.

3. If you are using a GPU, make sure that TensorFlow is able to access it. You can check this by running the following code:

```python
import tensorflow as tf
print("Num GPUs Available: ", len(tf.config.experimental.list_physical_devices('GPU')))
```

If the output is 0, TensorFlow is not able to access your GPU. You may need to update your GPU drivers or CUDA toolkit.

4. If you are still facing issues, please provide more details about the error or issue you are facing. The more information you provide, the easier it will be to help you.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The message "Not creating XLA devices, tf_xla_enable_xla_devices not set" is not an error but a warning from TensorFlow 2.4.1. It's related to the XLA (Accelerated Linear Algebra) compiler which is a domain-specific compiler for linear algebra that can accelerate TensorFlow computations. The warning is simply saying that XLA devices are not being created because the environment variable `tf_xla_enable_xla_devices` is not set.

This warning should not prevent your program from running. If your program is not running, the issue lies elsewhere. 

If you're not seeing anything on `http://0.0.0.0:4567/`, it could be because the server is not starting correctly or there's an issue with the network configuration. 

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check the console output for any error messages when you start the program. This could give you a clue as to what's going wrong.

2. Try accessing the server from `http://localhost:4567/` or `http://127.0.0.1:4567/` instead of `http://0.0.0.0:4567/`. The address `0.0.0.0` is a special address that means "all IPv4 addresses on the local machine". If a server is told to listen on `0.0.0.0`, it will be listening on all IPv4 addresses, but you can't necessarily connect to it using `0.0.0.0`.

3. Make sure your firewall or any other security software is not blocking the connection.

4. If you're running this in a virtual environment or a Docker container, make sure the network is correctly configured to allow connections to the server.

5. Check the code of the program to see if it's actually starting a server on port 4567. It's possible that the program is not working as expected or that there's a bug in the code.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The message "Not creating XLA devices, tf_xla_enable_xla_devices not set" is not an error but a warning message from TensorFlow 2.4.1. It's informing you that TensorFlow is not creating XLA (Accelerated Linear Algebra) devices because the environment variable `tf_xla_enable_xla_devices` is not set. 

XLA is a domain-specific compiler for linear algebra that can further optimize TensorFlow computations. If you don't specifically need it, you can ignore this warning.

If you want to enable XLA devices, you can set the environment variable by adding the following line to your code:

```python
os.environ['TF_XLA_FLAGS'] = '--tf_xla_enable_xla_devices'
```

You need to import the `os` module before setting the environment variable:

```python
import os
os.environ['TF_XLA_FLAGS'] = '--tf_xla_enable_xla_devices'
```

However, this warning is likely not the cause of your issue with the drive.py program. If you're not seeing anything at http://0.0.0.0:4567/, it could be a problem with the server setup or the network connection. You might want to check the server logs for any error messages or warnings.

--------
