
# Post \#65907365 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65907365/)

## tensorflow: Not creating XLA devices, tf_xla_enable_xla_devices not set

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 26048 (255/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-267

Created at 2021-01-26 18:43:01

Tags: `python` `tensorflow`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I run drive.py program from [Code Project | A Complete guide to self driving car](https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/1273179/A-Complete-guide-to-self-driving-Car?fbclid=IwAR1L7mOaPTZ7-vwWicXcAS7FLhVLcU9BUgaivhK0P9tbXAGe0zOThAuktMs)
but when i start program i have error:
Not creating XLA devices, tf_xla_enable_xla_devices not set
Does anyone know how I can fix this problem? What should I download or reinstall?
I use:
Python 3.8.7
CUDA 11.0
tensorflow 2.4.1
On [http://0.0.0.0:4567/](http://0.0.0.0:4567/) of course I see nothing
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/3pXqE.jpg)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are seeing is related to TensorFlow XLA (Accelerated Linear Algebra) devices. XLA is a domain-specific compiler for linear algebra that can optimize TensorFlow computations for performance on a variety of devices, including CPUs, GPUs, and custom accelerators.

To fix this issue, you can try setting the `TF_XLA_FLAGS` environment variable to enable XLA devices. Here's how you can do it:

1. Open a command prompt or terminal window.
2. Set the `TF_XLA_FLAGS` environment variable by running the following command:

   ```
   set TF_XLA_FLAGS=--tf_xla_enable_xla_devices
   ```

   On Linux or macOS, use the `export` command instead:

   ```
   export TF_XLA_FLAGS=--tf_xla_enable_xla_devices
   ```

3. Run your `drive.py` program again and see if the error is resolved.

If setting the `TF_XLA_FLAGS` environment variable doesn't work, you can try reinstalling TensorFlow with XLA support. To do this, uninstall TensorFlow using `pip uninstall tensorflow` and then reinstall it using `pip install tensorflow==2.4.1` with the `tensorflow-gpu` package if you have a compatible GPU.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you are seeing is related to TensorFlow's XLA (Accelerated Linear Algebra) feature. XLA is a domain-specific compiler for linear algebra operations, which can help improve the performance of TensorFlow models on certain hardware platforms.

To fix this error, you can try setting the `TF_XLA_FLAGS` environment variable to enable XLA. Here's how you can do it:

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
2. Set the `TF_XLA_FLAGS` environment variable by running the following command:
```
export TF_XLA_FLAGS=--tf_xla_enable_xla_devices
```
Note: If you are using Windows, use `set` instead of `export`.
3. Run your `drive.py` program again and see if the error is resolved.

If the above solution doesn't work, you can try upgrading TensorFlow to the latest version or downgrading to a previous version that is compatible with your CUDA version. You can also check if your CUDA installation is correct and properly configured.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you are seeing is related to TensorFlow XLA (Accelerated Linear Algebra) devices. XLA is a domain-specific compiler for linear algebra that can optimize TensorFlow computations for performance. 

To fix this issue, you can try setting the `tf_xla_enable_xla_devices` environment variable to `true` before running your program. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

```
export TF_XLA_FLAGS=--tf_xla_enable_xla_devices
```

Alternatively, you can try disabling XLA by setting the `TF_XLA_FLAGS` environment variable to an empty string:

```
export TF_XLA_FLAGS=
```

If neither of these solutions work, you may need to reinstall TensorFlow with XLA support. You can do this by running the following command:

```
pip install tensorflow==2.4.1 tensorflow-gpu==2.4.1
```

This will install the GPU version of TensorFlow with XLA support. Make sure to uninstall your current version of TensorFlow before running this command.

--------
