
# Post \#73057180 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73057180/)

## Split a string if character is present else don't split

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 560 (691/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-226

Created at 2022-07-20 19:27:29

Tags: `python` `python-3.x`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a `string` like below in `python`
```
testing_abc
```

I want to split string based on `_` and extract the `2` element
I have done like below
```
split_string = string.split('_')[1]
```

I am getting the correct output as expected
```
abc
```

Now I want this to work for below strings
```
1) xyz
```

When I use
```
split_string = string.split('_')[1]
```

I get below error
```
list index out of range
```

expected output I want is `xyz`
```
2) testing_abc_bbc
```

When I use
```
split_string = string.split('_')[1]
```

I get `abc` as output
expected output I want is `abc_bbc`
Basically What I want is
```
1) If string contains `_` then print everything after the first `_` as variable
2) If string doesn't contain `_` then print the string as variable
```

How can I achieve what I want


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can achieve this by checking if the string contains `_` using the `in` operator. If it contains `_`, then split the string and extract everything after the first `_`. Otherwise, just use the original string as the variable. Here's an example code snippet:

```
if '_' in string:
    split_string = '_'.join(string.split('_')[1:])
else:
    split_string = string
```

This code first checks if `_` is in the string using the `in` operator. If it is, then it splits the string using `_` as the delimiter and extracts everything after the first element using list slicing (`[1:]`). It then joins the remaining elements using `_` as the separator to get the desired output. If `_` is not in the string, then it simply assigns the original string to the variable.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can achieve this by checking if the string contains `_` using the `in` keyword. If it does, then split the string and extract the second element onwards. Otherwise, just return the original string.

Here's the code to achieve this:
```
if '_' in string:
    split_string = '_'.join(string.split('_')[1:])
else:
    split_string = string
```

This code first checks if `_` is present in the string using the `in` keyword. If it is present, then it splits the string using `_` as the delimiter and extracts the second element onwards using slicing. Finally, it joins the extracted elements using `_` as the separator to get the desired output.

If `_` is not present in the string, then it simply assigns the original string to the `split_string` variable.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can achieve this by checking if the string contains `_` using the `in` operator and then splitting the string accordingly. Here's an example code snippet that should work for you:

```
string = "testing_abc_bbc"

if "_" in string:
    split_string = "_".join(string.split("_")[1:])
else:
    split_string = string

print(split_string)
```

This code first checks if the string contains `_` using the `in` operator. If it does, it splits the string using `_` as the delimiter and joins all the elements after the first element using `_` again. If it doesn't contain `_`, it simply assigns the original string to the `split_string` variable.

--------
