
# Post \#72320130 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72320130/)

## Filter a list containing specific string

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 905 (665/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-224

Created at 2022-05-20 13:55:51

Tags: `python` `list`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


I have a specific set of a long list containing many asset pairs with different endings: `BTCUSDT` `ETHBTC` `ANKRETH`... From this list, I would like to filter out the symbols ending with USDT.

I have tried using `filter` and `all` with iterations, however, none provides the exact result.
Here are my attempts:

```
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_set = [word for word in symbols if 'USDT' in my_set]
my_set
```

> This results in an empty set.

```
keyword = ['USDT']
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
final = [ x for x in my_set in all(keyword in keyword for keyword in my_set)]
final
```

This results in the error:
> TypeError: argument of type 'bool' is not iterable

```
my_final_set = filter(lambda x:x.endswith(("USDT")), my_set)
my_final_set
```

> This shows: <filter at 0x7fe537eebf10>
I basically want my final list with all symbols ending with `USDT`

```
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
```

results in: `['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']`
Any help or advice on what I'm doing wrong would be massively appreciated. Thanks in advance!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You were on the right track with your last attempt using `filter` and `endswith`. The `filter` function in Python returns a filter object which is an iterator and you can convert it to a list using the `list` function. Here is how you can do it:

```python
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_final_set = list(filter(lambda x:x.endswith("USDT"), my_set))
print(my_final_set)
```

This will give you the desired output: `['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']`

Alternatively, you can use list comprehension to achieve the same result:

```python
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_final_set = [x for x in my_set if x.endswith("USDT")]
print(my_final_set)
```

This will also give you the desired output: `['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']`

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Your last attempt is almost correct. The `filter` function in Python returns a filter object which is an iterator and can be converted to a list or iterated over in a loop to get its elements. 

Here is how you can modify your last attempt to get the desired result:

```python
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_final_set = list(filter(lambda x:x.endswith("USDT"), my_set))
print(my_final_set)
```

This will output:

```python
['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']
```

This code works by using the `filter` function to filter out the elements in `my_set` that end with "USDT". The `lambda` function is used to check if each element ends with "USDT". The `filter` function returns a filter object, which is then converted to a list using the `list` function.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue with your first attempt is that you're checking if 'USDT' is in `my_set` which is a list, not a string. You should check if 'USDT' is in `word` instead.

The issue with your second attempt is that you're using `all` incorrectly. `all` checks if all elements in an iterable are true. In your case, you're checking if all elements in `keyword` are in `keyword` which is always true.

The issue with your third attempt is that `filter` returns a filter object which is an iterator and you need to convert it to a list to see the elements.

Here's the correct way to do it:

```python
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_final_set = [word for word in my_set if word.endswith('USDT')]
print(my_final_set)
```

Or if you want to use `filter`, you can do it like this:

```python
my_set = ['LUNAUSDT', 'ETHBTC', 'ETHBNB', 'BTCUSDT', 'MANATUSD', 'ALICEETH' ]
my_final_set = list(filter(lambda x: x.endswith('USDT'), my_set))
print(my_final_set)
```

Both of these will output: `['LUNAUSDT', 'BTCUSDT']`

--------
