
# Post \#58575970 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58575970/)

## Subprocess call with exit status 128

**Vote**: 11 (370/702) **Views**: 28256 (239/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-200

Created at 2019-10-27 01:25:44

Tags: `python` `git` `subprocess`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Essentially, I am trying to use a subprocess call to checkout a git commit at a specific sha hash.

However, I keep getting the error `subprocess.CalledProcessError: Command '['git', 'checkout', '62bbce43e']' returned non-zero exit status 128.`

This is my code below:

```
with open(filename) as inputfile:
    reader = csv.reader(inputfile, delimiter=",")
    linecount = 0
    for row in reader:
        if linecount == 0:
            linecount += 1
        else:
            repo = str(row[0])
            sha = str(row[2])
            specificfile = str(row[3])
            linenum = int(row[4])
            cl("cd", repo)
            subprocess.check_output(['git', 'checkout', sha])
            print("checkout done")
            git("checkout", "-")
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are receiving indicates that the `git checkout` command is failing. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as the specified commit hash not existing in the repository or the repository not being in a clean state.

To troubleshoot this issue, you can try the following:

1. Check that the specified commit hash exists in the repository by running the command `git log` and looking for the commit hash in the output.

2. Ensure that the repository is in a clean state by running the command `git status`. If there are any uncommitted changes or untracked files, you may need to commit or stash them before running the `git checkout` command.

3. Try running the `git checkout` command manually in the terminal to see if it produces any errors or prompts for input.

4. Add the `stderr=subprocess.STDOUT` parameter to the `subprocess.check_output` call to capture any error messages that may be returned by the `git checkout` command.

5. Consider using the `subprocess.run` method instead of `subprocess.check_output` to capture both the output and return code of the `git checkout` command. This can help provide more information about the error.

Here is an updated version of your code that includes some of these suggestions:

```
with open(filename) as inputfile:
    reader = csv.reader(inputfile, delimiter=",")
    linecount = 0
    for row in reader:
        if linecount == 0:
            linecount += 1
        else:
            repo = str(row[0])
            sha = str(row[2])
            specificfile = str(row[3])
            linenum = int(row[4])
            cl("cd", repo)
            try:
                subprocess.run(['git', 'checkout', sha], check=True, stderr=subprocess.STDOUT)
                print("checkout done")
                git("checkout", "-")
            except subprocess.CalledProcessError as e:
                print("Error: ", e.output.decode())
``` 

This code will capture any error messages produced by the `git checkout` command and print them to the console. It also uses the `subprocess.run` method to capture both the output and return code of the command.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you are receiving indicates that the `git checkout` command is failing. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as the specified commit hash not existing in the repository, or the repository not being in a clean state.

To troubleshoot this issue, you can try the following:

1. Check that the specified commit hash exists in the repository by running the `git log` command and verifying that the hash is present.

2. Ensure that the repository is in a clean state by running `git status` and verifying that there are no uncommitted changes or untracked files.

3. Try running the `git checkout` command manually in the terminal to see if you receive any error messages or prompts.

4. Add the `--force` flag to the `git checkout` command to force the checkout, although this should be used with caution as it can overwrite local changes.

5. Check the permissions of the repository directory to ensure that the user running the script has the necessary permissions to execute the `git` command.

Once you have identified the issue, you can modify your code accordingly to handle the error or prevent it from occurring in the first place.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you are receiving indicates that the `git checkout` command is failing. There could be several reasons for this, such as the specified commit hash not existing or the repository not being in a clean state.

Here are a few things you can try to troubleshoot the issue:

1. Check that the commit hash exists in the repository by running the command `git log` and verifying that the hash is present in the output.

2. Ensure that the repository is in a clean state by running the command `git status` and verifying that there are no uncommitted changes.

3. Try running the `git checkout` command manually in the terminal to see if you get any additional error messages.

4. Add the `stderr=subprocess.STDOUT` argument to your `subprocess.check_output` call to capture any error messages that may be printed to the console.

5. Consider using the `subprocess.run` method instead of `subprocess.check_output` to capture both the stdout and stderr output.

6. Finally, you can try wrapping the `git checkout` command in a try-except block to catch any exceptions that may be raised and print out the error message.

--------
