
# Post \#71115542 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71115542/)

## How to repeat the input until a special condition is met in Python?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 2606 (586/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-286

Created at 2022-02-14 17:04:14

Tags: `python` `user-input` `try-except`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I need to take integer inputs from the user and add them to a set. The number of integers is unknown. The input process will end when the user input is "Done".
Here is my code:
```
s = set()
print('Please type the number, when you are done please type "Done":')
while True:
    try:
        a = int(input())
        s.add(a)
    except:
        if a == "Done":
            break
        else:
            print('Integer only, please re-type:')
            continue
print(s)
```

But it didn't work as intended.
My idea is simple. If the user types an integer then it's fine, just add to set `s`. If they type a string (which `int(input()` is wrong), then it will go down to `except`, if the string is "Done", then break the `while True` loop, if it isn't then ask the user to re-type and continue the loop.
Here is the error if I type a string first and if I type normally:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/yYTiP.png)
I tried to use a simple if-else statement at the start but it causes traceback right at `int(input())`.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The issue with your code is that you are trying to access the variable `a` outside of its scope. The variable `a` is only defined inside the `try` block, so when you try to access it in the `except` block, it hasn't been defined yet.

To fix this, you can define `a` before the `try` block and set it to an initial value (e.g. `None`). Then, inside the `try` block, you can update the value of `a` to the integer input. This way, `a` will be defined outside of the `try` block and you can access it inside the `except` block.

Here's the updated code:

```
s = set()
print('Please type the number, when you are done please type "Done":')
a = None
while True:
    try:
        a = input()
        if a == "Done":
            break
        else:
            s.add(int(a))
    except ValueError:
        print('Integer only, please re-type:')
print(s)
```

In this code, we first set `a` to `None`. Then, inside the `try` block, we first check if the input is "Done". If it is, we break out of the loop. If it's not, we try to convert it to an integer using `int(a)`. If this raises a `ValueError`, we print an error message and continue the loop. If it doesn't raise an error, we add the integer to the set `s`.

Note that we're using `except ValueError` instead of just `except`. This is because we only want to catch `ValueError` exceptions (which are raised when we try to convert a non-integer input to an integer). If there's any other exception (e.g. a `KeyboardInterrupt` if the user presses Ctrl+C), we want to let it propagate up the call stack.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The issue with your code is that you are trying to access the variable `a` outside of the `try` block. If the user inputs a string, the `a` variable will not be defined, and you will get a `NameError`. To fix this, you can move the `if a == "Done":` check inside the `try` block, and set `a` to the input value before the `try` block. Here's the updated code:

```
s = set()
print('Please type the number, when you are done please type "Done":')
while True:
    a = input()
    try:
        a = int(a)
        s.add(a)
    except ValueError:
        if a == "Done":
            break
        else:
            print('Integer only, please re-type:')
            continue
print(s)
```

In this updated code, we first get the user input as a string, and then try to convert it to an integer. If the conversion is successful, we add the integer to the set. If the conversion fails (i.e., the user input is not an integer), we check if the input is "Done". If it is, we break out of the loop. If it's not, we ask the user to re-type.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The issue with your code is that you are trying to access the variable `a` outside of the `try` block. If the user inputs a string, the `try` block will fail and `a` will not be defined, causing a `NameError` when you try to check if `a == "Done"` in the `except` block.

To fix this, you can move the `if a == "Done":` check inside the `try` block, and use a `break` statement to exit the loop when the user inputs "Done". Here's the updated code:

```
s = set()
print('Please type the number, when you are done please type "Done":')
while True:
    try:
        a = input()
        if a == "Done":
            break
        s.add(int(a))
    except ValueError:
        print('Integer only, please re-type:')
        continue
print(s)
```

In this version, we first read the user input as a string using `input()`, and then check if it's equal to "Done" inside the `try` block. If it is, we use `break` to exit the loop. If it's not, we try to convert it to an integer using `int(a)` and add it to the set. If the conversion fails (i.e., the user input is not a valid integer), we catch the `ValueError` exception and ask the user to re-type.

--------
