
# Post \#52412297 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52412297/)

## How to replace environment variable value in yaml file to be parsed using python script

**Vote**: 27 (213/702) **Views**: 84889 (99/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-272

Created at 2018-09-19 18:39:30

Tags: `python` `python-2.7` `pyyaml`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I need to use environment variable "PATH" in yaml file which needs to be parsed with a script.  

This is the environment variable I have set on my terminal:

```
$ echo $PATH
/Users/abc/Downloads/tbwork
```


This is my sample.yml:

```
---
Top: ${PATH}/my.txt
Vars:
- a
- b
```


When I parse this yaml file with my script, I don't see `PATH` variables actual value. 

This is my script:

```
import yaml
import os
import sys

stream = open("sample.yml", "r")
docs = yaml.load_all(stream)
for doc in docs:
    for k,v in doc.items():
        print k, "->", v
    print "\n",
```


Output:

```
Top -> ${PATH}/my.txt
Vars -> ['a', 'b']
```


Expected output is:

```
Top -> /Users/abc/Downloads/tbwork/my.txt
Vars -> ['a', 'b']
```


Can someone help me figuring out the correct way to do it if I am doing it wrong way?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue is that the yaml file doesn't automatically interpolate environment variables. You need to manually replace them in your Python script. Here's how you can do it:

```python
import yaml
import os
import sys

stream = open("sample.yml", "r")
docs = yaml.safe_load(stream)

for k, v in docs.items():
    if isinstance(v, str):
        docs[k] = os.path.expandvars(v)

for k, v in docs.items():
    print(k, "->", v)
```

In this script, we use `os.path.expandvars()` to replace `${PATH}` with the actual value of the PATH environment variable. The `os.path.expandvars()` function replaces variables in a string with their actual values.

Please note that `yaml.load_all()` is replaced with `yaml.safe_load()` for safety reasons. The `load()` function can create arbitrary Python objects, which can be a security risk if you're loading YAML from an untrusted source. The `safe_load()` function only creates basic Python data types like dictionaries, lists, strings, etc.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue here is that the yaml.load_all function does not perform environment variable substitution. You can add this functionality by using the os.path.expandvars function, which replaces environment variables in a string.

Here is the modified script:

```python
import yaml
import os
import sys

stream = open("sample.yml", "r")
docs = yaml.load_all(stream)
for doc in docs:
    for k,v in doc.items():
        if isinstance(v, str):  # Check if the value is a string
            v = os.path.expandvars(v)  # Replace environment variables in the string
        print(k, "->", v)
    print("\n")
```

This script will replace ${PATH} with the actual value of the PATH environment variable in the yaml file.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue here is that the YAML parser doesn't know anything about your environment variables. It's just treating `${PATH}` as a string. You'll need to manually replace the `${PATH}` in your YAML file with the actual value of the `PATH` environment variable.

Here's how you can do it:

```python
import yaml
import os
import sys

stream = open("sample.yml", "r")
docs = yaml.safe_load(stream)  # Use safe_load instead load_all for loading the yaml file

for k, v in docs.items():
    if isinstance(v, str):  # Check if the value is a string
        docs[k] = os.path.expandvars(v)  # Replace ${PATH} with the actual value of PATH

for k, v in docs.items():
    print(k, "->", v)
```

This script uses the `os.path.expandvars` function, which replaces `${varname}` or `$varname` in a string with the value of the environment variable `varname`. If such a variable does not exist, the function leaves the original string unchanged.

Please note that `yaml.load_all` is replaced with `yaml.safe_load` because `load_all` returns a generator, and `safe_load` is safer to use as it correctly parses the yaml file and also prevents the execution of arbitrary code.

--------
