
# Post \#73257386 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73257386/)

## pandas groupby column that has specific value

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 536 (695/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-180

Created at 2022-08-06 05:25:26

Tags: `python` `pandas`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

hi im working with dataset in pandas.
lets say the dataset having
ID,
TEST_TYPE,
TEST_STATUS,
TEST_DATE,
etc
i need to group a kind of column so first i try
```
data_useless[['TEST_TYPE', 'TEST_STATUS']].groupby('TEST_STATUS').count_values()
```

and it worked : showing the result of grouped data by test_status(FAILED TEST and PASS TEST) and count value of that data on dataset
now i want to know and see the data more from the PASS TEST
so i tried
```
data_useless.groupby(['TEST_STATUS'] == 'PASS TEST')
```

and it not working.. showing error, it say 
i need to do something like
in sql :
```
SELECT *
FROM data_useless
WHERE TEST_STATUS = "PASS TEST"
group by TEST_STATUS;
```

please help,,,


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In pandas, you can filter your DataFrame before applying the groupby operation. Here's how you can do it:

```python
data_useless[data_useless['TEST_STATUS'] == 'PASS TEST'].groupby('TEST_STATUS').count()
```

This line of code will first filter your DataFrame to only include rows where 'TEST_STATUS' is 'PASS TEST'. Then, it will group by 'TEST_STATUS' and count the number of occurrences.

However, since you're filtering the DataFrame to only include 'PASS TEST' in 'TEST_STATUS', the groupby operation might not be necessary unless you have other columns you want to group by. If you just want to see the count of 'PASS TEST', you can do:

```python
data_useless[data_useless['TEST_STATUS'] == 'PASS TEST'].count()
```

This will give you the count of 'PASS TEST' in your DataFrame.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In pandas, you can filter your DataFrame before grouping. Here's how you can do it:

```python
data_useless[data_useless['TEST_STATUS'] == 'PASS TEST'].groupby('TEST_STATUS').count()
```

This will filter your DataFrame to only include rows where 'TEST_STATUS' is 'PASS TEST', and then group by 'TEST_STATUS' and count the number of occurrences.

However, since you're filtering to only include 'PASS TEST', the grouping by 'TEST_STATUS' won't really do anything because there's only one group. If you want to group by another column (like 'TEST_TYPE') after filtering for 'PASS TEST', you can do:

```python
data_useless[data_useless['TEST_STATUS'] == 'PASS TEST'].groupby('TEST_TYPE').count()
```

This will give you the count of each 'TEST_TYPE' for the 'PASS TEST' status.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In pandas, you can filter your DataFrame before applying groupby. Here's how you can do it:

```python
data_useless[data_useless['TEST_STATUS'] == 'PASS TEST'].groupby('TEST_STATUS').count()
```

This line of code will first filter your DataFrame to only include rows where 'TEST_STATUS' is 'PASS TEST'. Then it will group by 'TEST_STATUS' and count the number of occurrences.

If you want to see all the data for 'PASS TEST', you don't need to use groupby. You can just filter the DataFrame:

```python
data_useless[data_useless['TEST_STATUS'] == 'PASS TEST']
```

This will return all rows in your DataFrame where 'TEST_STATUS' is 'PASS TEST'.

--------
