
# Post \#53004311 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53004311/)

## How to add conda environment to jupyter lab

**Vote**: 183 (23/702) **Views**: 131075 (63/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-273

Created at 2018-10-26 08:13:26

Tags: `python` `anaconda` `jupyter-notebook` `jupyter-lab`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm using Jupyter Lab and I'm having trouble to add `conda` environment. The idea is to launch Jupyter Lab from my base environment, and then to be able to choose my other conda envs as kernels.

I installed the package `nb_conda_kernels` which is supposed to do just that, but it's not working as I want. Indeed, let's assume I create a new Conda Environment, then I launch jupyter lab from base, I can't see the new environment as an available kernel.

I have found a "fix", which works everytime but is not convenient at all. If I install Jupyter Notebook in my new environment, then launch a jupyter notebook from this new environment, close it, go back to base environment, and then launch Jupyter Lab from base environment, my new environment is available as a kernel in Jupyter Lab.

If you know how to make it work without this "fix", I would be very grateful.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It sounds like you may need to activate the new environment before launching Jupyter Lab. Here are the steps you can follow:

1. Create a new Conda environment using `conda create --name myenv`.
2. Activate the new environment using `conda activate myenv`.
3. Install `nb_conda_kernels` in the new environment using `conda install nb_conda_kernels`.
4. Launch Jupyter Lab from the new environment using `jupyter lab`.
5. In Jupyter Lab, go to the "Kernel" menu and select "Change Kernel". You should see the new environment listed as an available kernel.

If you want to launch Jupyter Lab from your base environment and still be able to use the new environment as a kernel, you can try installing `nb_conda_kernels` in your base environment as well. Then, when you launch Jupyter Lab from the base environment, you should be able to see all available kernels, including those from other environments.

If this doesn't work, you can try updating your Jupyter Lab installation using `conda update jupyterlab`. Sometimes, outdated versions of Jupyter Lab can cause issues with kernel management.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It sounds like you have already taken the necessary steps to make sure that `nb_conda_kernels` is installed in your base environment. However, there are a few additional steps that you can take to make sure that your new environment is recognized as a kernel in Jupyter Lab.

First, make sure that you have activated your new environment before launching Jupyter Lab. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

```
conda activate <new_environment_name>
```

Once you have activated your new environment, you can launch Jupyter Lab by running the following command:

```
jupyter lab
```

If your new environment is not showing up as a kernel in Jupyter Lab, you can try running the following command to install the kernel into Jupyter Lab:

```
python -m ipykernel install --user --name <new_environment_name> --display-name "<New Environment Name>"
```

This command will install the kernel for your new environment and give it a display name that will show up in Jupyter Lab.

If you still have trouble, you can try restarting Jupyter Lab or your terminal session to make sure that all changes have been properly loaded.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

There are a few things you can try to make sure that your conda environments are properly recognized in Jupyter Lab:

1. Make sure that `nb_conda_kernels` is installed in your base environment, as well as any other environments you want to use as kernels.

2. Activate the environment you want to use as a kernel before launching Jupyter Lab. You can do this by running `conda activate <env_name>` in your terminal.

3. Check that the kernel is properly installed by running `jupyter kernelspec list` in your terminal. This should show a list of all the available kernels, including any conda environments you have installed.

4. If the kernel is not showing up in Jupyter Lab, try running `jupyter lab build` in your terminal to rebuild the Jupyter Lab environment.

5. If none of these steps work, you can try manually adding the kernel to Jupyter Lab by running `python -m ipykernel install --user --name <env_name> --display-name "<display_name>"`. This will create a new kernel specification file that Jupyter Lab should recognize.

I hope one of these solutions works for you! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
