
# Post \#54760850 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54760850/)

## Replace all newline characters using python

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 48914 (167/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-300

Created at 2019-02-19 07:30:54

Tags: `python` `python-3.x`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to read a pdf using python and the content has many newline (crlf) characters. I tried removing them using below code:

```
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = content.replace("\r\n", "")
print(content)
```


But the output remains unchanged. I tried using double backslashes also which didn't fix the issue. can someone please advise?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue might be due to the fact that the newline characters in your PDF are not exactly "\r\n". They could be just "\n" or "\r" or even a combination of these.

You can try replacing each of them separately. Here's how you can do it:

```python
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = content.replace("\r", "").replace("\n", "")
print(content)
```

This code will replace both "\r" and "\n" characters separately. If the newline characters in your PDF are either of these, they will be removed.

If this still doesn't work, it's possible that there are other invisible characters that appear like newlines. You might need to inspect your data more closely to find out what those characters are.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue might be due to the fact that the newline characters in your PDF content are not exactly "\r\n". They might be just "\n" or "\r" or even "\r\n\r\n" etc.

You can try replacing each of them separately:

```python
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = content.replace("\r", "").replace("\n", "")
print(content)
```

This will remove all "\r" and "\n" characters from your content.

If you want to replace multiple consecutive newline characters with a single space, you can use the `re` module:

```python
import re
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = re.sub('\s+', ' ', content)
print(content)
```

This will replace one or more whitespace characters (including `\n`, `\r`, and spaces) with a single space.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue might be due to the fact that the newline characters in your PDF are not exactly "\r\n". They might be just "\n" or "\r". 

You can try replacing each of them separately:

```python
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = content.replace("\r", "").replace("\n", "")
print(content)
```

This code will replace both "\r" and "\n" characters in your string.

If you want to replace multiple types of whitespace characters (like newlines, spaces, tabs etc.) you can use the `re` module:

```python
import re
from tika import parser

filename = 'myfile.pdf'
raw = parser.from_file(filename)
content = raw['content']
content = re.sub('\s', '', content)
print(content)
```

The '\s' pattern matches any whitespace character.

--------
