
# Post \#63945330 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63945330/)

## Plotly: How to add text labels to a histogram?

**Vote**: 5 (499/702) **Views**: 11810 (397/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-3-254

Created at 2020-09-17 19:52:37

Tags: `python` `plotly` `plotly-express`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `python` (full parsed tag list: `python`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there a way how to display the counted value of the histogram aggregate in the Plotly.Express histogram?
`px.histogram(pd.DataFrame({"A":[1,1,1,2,2,3,3,3,4,4,4,5]}),x="A")`
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/mML9n.png)
If I would use regular histogram, I can specify `text` parameter which direct to the column which contain the value to display.
`px.bar(pd.DataFrame({"val":[1,2,3,4,5], "height": [3,2,3,3,1]}), x="val", y="height", text="height")`
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Pqvhj.png)
But with histograms, this value is calculated and it's not even part of the `fig.to_dict()`. Is there a way to add the text labels into histogram?
Using the answers below, I've summarized the finding to an article - [https://towardsdatascience.com/histograms-with-plotly-express-complete-guide-d483656c5ad7](https://towardsdatascience.com/histograms-with-plotly-express-complete-guide-d483656c5ad7)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can display the counted value of the histogram aggregate in Plotly.Express histogram by using the `custom_data` parameter. Here's an example:

```python
import plotly.express as px
import pandas as pd

df = pd.DataFrame({"A":[1,1,1,2,2,3,3,3,4,4,4,5]})

fig = px.histogram(df, x="A", custom_data=["count"])
fig.update_traces(texttemplate='%{customdata[0]}', textposition='outside')
fig.show()
```

In this example, we added the `custom_data` parameter to the `px.histogram()` function and specified that we want to include the count of each bin. We then updated the traces to display the custom data as text labels outside the bars using the `texttemplate` and `textposition` parameters.

The resulting histogram will display the count of each bin as text labels on top of the bars.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can display the counted value of the histogram aggregate in Plotly.Express histogram by using the `custom_data` parameter. Here's an example code:

```
import plotly.express as px
import pandas as pd

df = pd.DataFrame({"A":[1,1,1,2,2,3,3,3,4,4,4,5]})

fig = px.histogram(df, x="A", custom_data=["count"])
fig.update_traces(texttemplate='%{y}', textposition='outside')
fig.update_layout(uniformtext_minsize=8, uniformtext_mode='hide')
fig.show()
```

In this code, we added the `custom_data` parameter to the `px.histogram()` function and set it to `["count"]`. This will include the count of each bin in the custom data of the histogram. 

Then, we updated the traces of the figure using `fig.update_traces()` to set the `texttemplate` to `'%{y}'`, which will display the y-axis value (i.e., the count) as the text label. We also set the `textposition` to `'outside'` to display the text label outside the bar.

Finally, we updated the layout of the figure using `fig.update_layout()` to set the `uniformtext_minsize` to `8` and `uniformtext_mode` to `'hide'`. This will ensure that the text labels are readable and not overlapping with each other.

I hope this helps!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can display the counted value of the histogram aggregate in Plotly.Express histogram by using the `custom_data` parameter. Here's an example:

```
import plotly.express as px
import pandas as pd

df = pd.DataFrame({"A":[1,1,1,2,2,3,3,3,4,4,4,5]})
fig = px.histogram(df, x="A", custom_data=['count'])
fig.update_traces(texttemplate='%{customdata[0]}', textposition='outside')
fig.show()
```

In this example, we added the `custom_data` parameter to the `px.histogram()` function to include the count of each bin. We then updated the trace to display the custom data using the `texttemplate` parameter and positioned the text outside the bars using the `textposition` parameter.

--------
