
# Post \#72509813 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72509813/)

## Replace values in one data.table from another data.table

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 565 (690/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-317

Created at 2022-06-05 17:52:45

Tags: `r` `data.table`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a `data.table` called `big` in which I want to replace all corresponding values from `data.table` called `new_big`.
```
library(data.table)
big <- structure(list(id = c("B", "C", "D", "E", "F", "G", "H", "I", 
"J", "K"), col = c(103L, 103L, 102L, 105L, 104L, 103L, 104L, 104L, 
104L, 103L)), row.names = c(NA, -10L), class = c("data.table", 
"data.frame"))
new_big <- structure(list(id = c("B", "E", "G"), col = c(1, 11, 111)), row.names = c(NA, 
-3L), class = c("data.table", "data.frame"))
```

They create:
```
> big
    id col
 1:  B 103
 2:  C 103
 3:  D 102
 4:  E 105
 5:  F 104
 6:  G 103
 7:  H 104
 8:  I 104
 9:  J 104
10:  K 103

> new_big
   id col
1:  B   1
2:  E  11
3:  G 111
```

Here is the desired output -
```
id  col
 1:  B 1
 2:  C 103
 3:  D 102
 4:  E 11
 5:  F 104
 6:  G 111
 7:  H 104
 8:  I 104
 9:  J 104
10:  K 103
```

Is there a way to join these two tables to get the desired output?
I tried following but I could not get the desired output as shown above. Any pointers will be helpful.
```
big[new_big, on = .(id)]
   id col i.col
1:  B 105     1
2:  E 103    11
3:  G 101   111
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `data.table` join operation to replace the values in `big` with the corresponding values in `new_big`. However, you need to specify that you want to replace the `col` values in `big` with the `col` values in `new_big`. This can be done by using `:=` operator to assign the new values to `col` in `big`.

Here is how you can do it:

```r
big[new_big, col := i.col, on = .(id)]
```

This code will replace the `col` values in `big` with the `col` values in `new_big` for the matching `id` values. The `:=` operator is used to modify `big` in place.

After running this code, `big` should have the desired output:

```r
> big
    id col
 1:  B   1
 2:  C 103
 3:  D 102
 4:  E  11
 5:  F 104
 6:  G 111
 7:  H 104
 8:  I 104
 9:  J 104
10:  K 103
```

This shows that the `col` values for `id` values `B`, `E`, and `G` have been replaced with the corresponding `col` values from `new_big`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `data.table` join operation to replace the values in `big` with the corresponding values from `new_big`. However, you need to specify that you want to update the `col` column in `big` with the `col` values from `new_big`. Here is how you can do it:

```r
big[new_big, col := i.col, on = .(id)]
```

This command will join `big` and `new_big` on the `id` column and replace the `col` values in `big` with the corresponding `col` values from `new_big` (referred to as `i.col` in the join operation). 

After running this command, `big` will be updated as follows:

```r
> big
    id col
 1:  B   1
 2:  C 103
 3:  D 102
 4:  E  11
 5:  F 104
 6:  G 111
 7:  H 104
 8:  I 104
 9:  J 104
10:  K 103
```

This is exactly the output you wanted.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue with your code is that you are not specifying which column to update in the `big` data.table. You can use the `:=` operator to update the `col` column in `big` with the corresponding values from `new_big` where the `id` matches.

Here is the correct code:

```r
big[new_big, col := i.col, on = .(id)]
```

This code performs a join on `id` and updates the `col` column in `big` with the corresponding values from `new_big`.

Let's break it down:

- `big[new_big, on = .(id)]`: This part performs a join on `id`. It matches rows in `big` with rows in `new_big` where the `id` is the same.
- `col := i.col`: This part updates the `col` column in `big` with the corresponding values from `new_big`. The `i.` prefix is used to refer to the columns of `new_big` in the join.

After running the code, `big` will be updated as follows:

```r
> big
    id col
 1:  B   1
 2:  C 103
 3:  D 102
 4:  E  11
 5:  F 104
 6:  G 111
 7:  H 104
 8:  I 104
 9:  J 104
10:  K 103
```

This is exactly the output you wanted.

--------
