
# Post \#69525690 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69525690/)

## remove Rows with complete set of NA

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 1692 (615/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-320

Created at 2021-10-11 11:46:21

Tags: `r` `filter` `subset` `na`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a dataset and I would like to delete the rows that have a complete set of NAs in columns 456:555, I want to keep those with some NAs but I need to delete those with a complete set of NAs
I have tried
```
final[complete.cases(final[ , 456:555]),]
```

but this doesn't work. It says
```
Error in help.search(c("[", "final", "complete.cases(final[, c(456:555)])",  : argument ‘pattern’ must be a single character string
```

then I think this probably would work:
```
data[rowSums(is.na(data)) != ncol(data),]
```

but I don't know where to include 456:555 there
what should I do?
Thanks!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can modify your second approach to only consider the columns from 456 to 555. Here's how you can do it:

```r
final[rowSums(is.na(final[, 456:555])) != (555-456+1), ]
```

This line of code will keep the rows where the number of NA values in columns 456 to 555 is not equal to the total number of these columns (which is 100 in this case). So, it will remove the rows where all values in these columns are NA.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You are on the right track with your second approach. You can use the `rowSums` and `is.na` functions to count the number of NA values in each row for the specified columns. Then, you can filter out the rows where the count is equal to the total number of columns (which means all values are NA).

Here is how you can do it:

```r
final[rowSums(is.na(final[, 456:555])) != (555-456+1), ]
```

This line of code will keep the rows where the number of NA values in columns 456 to 555 is not equal to 100 (which is the total number of these columns). This means it will keep the rows where there is at least one non-NA value in these columns.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can modify your second approach to only consider columns 456:555. Here's how you can do it:

```r
final[rowSums(is.na(final[, 456:555])) != (555-456+1), ]
```

This will keep rows where the number of NA values in columns 456:555 is not equal to the total number of these columns, i.e., it will remove rows where all values in these columns are NA.

--------
