
# Post \#66065099 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66065099/)

## How to update GitHub authentification token on Rstudio to match the new policy?

**Vote**: 27 (213/702) **Views**: 11892 (395/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-330

Created at 2021-02-05 14:31:56

Tags: `r` `git` `github` `rstudio` `access-token`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

While pushing a commit to GitHub yesterday, I received an email from the GitHub team:
> Basic authentication using a password to Git is deprecated and will soon no longer work. Visit [https://github.blog/2020-12-15-token-authentication-requirements-for-git-operations/](https://github.blog/2020-12-15-token-authentication-requirements-for-git-operations/) for more information around suggested workarounds and removal dates.Thanks,
The GitHub Team
I don't understand a word of the help page...
I did create a more secure access token a few months ago when they first announced the change in authentification, and entered it in the terminal of my mac. I thought that would be it. My question is: 
Thanks in advance for your help,
Rosalie


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Hi Rosalie,

It sounds like you have already created a personal access token for GitHub authentication, which is great! However, you may need to update your Git configuration to use the access token instead of your password.

Here are the steps to update your Git configuration:

1. Open Terminal on your Mac.
2. Navigate to the repository where you want to update the Git configuration.
3. Run the following command to update the Git configuration:

```
git config --global credential.helper osxkeychain
```

This command tells Git to use the macOS Keychain to store your access token.

4. Run the following command to remove any existing credentials:

```
git credential-osxkeychain erase
host=github.com
protocol=https
```

5. Push a commit to GitHub. You will be prompted to enter your access token instead of your password.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Hi Rosalie,

It sounds like you have already created a personal access token for GitHub authentication. However, you may need to update your Git remote URLs to use the token instead of your password.

To do this, you can update your remote URL in the terminal using the following command:

```
git remote set-url origin https://username:token@github.com/username/repo.git
```

Replace "username" with your GitHub username and "token" with your personal access token. You can find your personal access token in your GitHub account settings.

Once you have updated your remote URL, you should be able to push commits to GitHub without using your password.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Hi Rosalie,

It sounds like you have already created a personal access token, which is great! The email from GitHub is just a reminder that basic authentication using a password to Git is deprecated and will soon no longer work. This means that if you are still using your GitHub password to authenticate Git operations, you will need to switch to using a personal access token instead.

To use your personal access token, you will need to update your Git remote URLs to use the HTTPS protocol instead of the SSH protocol. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

```
git remote set-url origin https://github.com/USERNAME/REPOSITORY.git
```

Replace `USERNAME` with your GitHub username and `REPOSITORY` with the name of your repository.

When you push to GitHub, you will be prompted to enter your personal access token instead of your GitHub password. Once you have entered your token, Git will remember it for future operations.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
