
# Post \#69525690 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69525690/)

## remove Rows with complete set of NA

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 1692 (615/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-320

Created at 2021-10-11 11:46:21

Tags: `r` `filter` `subset` `na`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a dataset and I would like to delete the rows that have a complete set of NAs in columns 456:555, I want to keep those with some NAs but I need to delete those with a complete set of NAs
I have tried
```
final[complete.cases(final[ , 456:555]),]
```

but this doesn't work. It says
```
Error in help.search(c("[", "final", "complete.cases(final[, c(456:555)])",  : argument ‘pattern’ must be a single character string
```

then I think this probably would work:
```
data[rowSums(is.na(data)) != ncol(data),]
```

but I don't know where to include 456:555 there
what should I do?
Thanks!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can modify the second code you provided to include only columns 456:555 by subsetting the data frame before checking for NAs. Here's an example:

```
final[rowSums(is.na(final[, 456:555])) != ncol(final[, 456:555]), ]
```

This code first subsets the data frame to include only columns 456:555 (`final[, 456:555]`), then checks for rows with at least one non-NA value in those columns (`rowSums(is.na(final[, 456:555])) != ncol(final[, 456:555])`). Finally, it returns the subset of the original data frame (`final[...]`).

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can modify the second code you provided to include only columns 456:555 by subsetting the data frame before checking for NAs. Here's an example:

```
final[rowSums(is.na(final[, 456:555])) != ncol(final[, 456:555]), ]
```

This code first subsets the data frame to include only columns 456:555 (`final[, 456:555]`), then checks for rows that have at least one non-NA value in these columns (`rowSums(is.na(final[, 456:555])) != ncol(final[, 456:555])`). Finally, it returns the subset of the original data frame that meets this condition (`final[...]`).

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `is.na()` function to check for missing values in the specified columns and then use the `rowSums()` function to count the number of missing values in each row. If the count is equal to the number of columns, it means that the row has a complete set of NAs in those columns and should be removed. Here's an example code:

```
final[rowSums(is.na(final[, 456:555])) != ncol(final[, 456:555]),]
```

This code will keep the rows that have at least one non-missing value in columns 456 to 555 and remove the rows that have a complete set of NAs in those columns.

--------
