
# Post \#67649621 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67649621/)

## data.frame with 2 columns with the same name: how to select the second one?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 2360 (594/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-327

Created at 2021-05-22 12:46:22

Tags: `r` `dataframe`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `python` `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
d1 <- data.frame(a=c(1,2,3))
d2 <- data.frame(a=c(3,4,5))
d3 <- cbind(d1,d2)
```

doesn't return an error, and an inspection of the environment in RStudio displays two columns with the same name.
If I type:
```
d3$a
```

The first column is selected. How to select the second by name?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In R, when you have two columns with the same name, you can select the second one by using its index. However, it's not a good practice to have two columns with the same name in a data frame. It can lead to confusion and errors in your code.

If you still want to select the second column named 'a', you can do it like this:

```R
d3[,2]
```

This will select the second column of the data frame `d3`.

If you want to select the second column by name, you can rename the columns first:

```R
names(d3) <- c("a1", "a2")
```

Then you can select the second column by its new name:

```R
d3$a2
```

This will select the column 'a2' from the data frame `d3`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In R, when you have two columns with the same name, you can access them using their index in the dataframe. 

In your case, you can access the second column named "a" in the dataframe "d3" by using its index. Here is how you can do it:

```r
d3[,2]
```

This will select the second column of the dataframe "d3". 

If you want to rename the columns to avoid confusion, you can do it like this:

```r
names(d3) <- c("a1", "a2")
```

Now you can access the columns by their new names:

```r
d3$a1  # for the first column
d3$a2  # for the second column
```

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In R, when you have two columns with the same name, you can select the second column by using the index of the column. In your case, the second column named "a" is the second column in the data frame, so you can select it like this:

```R
d3[,2]
```

If you want to select it by name, you can rename the column first:

```R
names(d3)[2] <- "a2"
d3$a2
```

This will rename the second column to "a2" and then you can select it by its new name.

--------
