
# Post \#70226329 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70226329/)

## Use dplyr's if_else function with functional true/false values

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 1422 (627/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-331

Created at 2021-12-04 14:06:56

Tags: `r` `dplyr`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


## Question


How can dplyr's `if_else()` function be used such that its output is a function? With `ifelse()` from `base` this is trivial but with `if_else()` something goes wrong. Is that intended behavior or am I just not able to do that properly?

## Reprex


```
x <- 2
ifelse(x == 2, min, max)
#> function (..., na.rm = FALSE)  .Primitive("min")
dplyr::if_else(x == 2, min, max)
#> Error in true[rep(NA_integer_, length(condition))]: object of type 'builtin' is not subsettable
```

[reprex package](https://reprex.tidyverse.org)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `dplyr::if_else()` function is type-stable, meaning that it checks the type of the output in both the `true` and `false` conditions to ensure they are the same. This is different from `base::ifelse()`, which does not enforce type stability.

In your example, `min` and `max` are both functions, so you would expect `dplyr::if_else()` to work. However, the issue arises because `dplyr::if_else()` also checks that the output can be subsetted (like a vector), which is not the case for functions in R.

This is indeed intended behavior for `dplyr::if_else()`. If you want to return a function based on a condition, you can use `base::ifelse()`, or use a standard `if` and `else` control structure:

```r
x <- 2
if (x == 2) min else max
#> function (..., na.rm = FALSE)  .Primitive("min")
```

This will give you the desired output.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `dplyr::if_else()` function is type-stable, meaning that it checks the type of the `true` and `false` arguments and ensures they are the same. This is a feature of `dplyr::if_else()` and is intended to prevent unexpected results due to automatic type conversion.

In your example, `min` and `max` are both functions, so they should be compatible. However, `dplyr::if_else()` doesn't support returning functions. It's designed to work with vectors of values, not functions.

If you want to return a function based on a condition, you can use the base R `ifelse()` function, or use a standard `if`/`else` control structure:

```r
x <- 2
if (x == 2) min else max
```

This will return the `min` function if `x` is 2, and the `max` function otherwise. Note that this only works for single values of `x`, not for vectors. If you need to do this for a vector of values, you'll need to use a loop or an apply function, and you'll need to store the results in a list, because a vector can't hold functions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `if_else()` function from `dplyr` is type-stable, meaning that it checks if the output type for both the `true` and `false` conditions are the same. This is a feature of `if_else()` and is intended to prevent unexpected output types which can sometimes occur with `base::ifelse()`. 

In your case, `min` and `max` are both functions, so they are of the same type. However, `if_else()` does not support function type. This is why you are getting an error.

If you want to return a function based on a condition, you can use the `base::ifelse()` or a simple `if` and `else` construct. Here's an example:

```r
x <- 2
fun <- if (x == 2) min else max
fun(c(1,2,3))  # will return 1
```

In this example, `fun` will be assigned the function `min` if `x` is 2, otherwise it will be assigned the function `max`. Then you can use `fun` as a function.

--------
