
# Post \#61204259 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61204259/)

## How can I resolve the "No Font Name" issue when importing fonts into R using extrafont?

**Vote**: 45 (139/702) **Views**: 17235 (331/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-318

Created at 2020-04-14 09:12:38

Tags: `r` `extrafont`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a folder on my Windows desktop (`C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts`) which contains fonts that I would like to import into R using `extrafont`.

When I try to import the fonts using

```
library(extrafont)
font_import(paths = "C:/Users/me/Desktop/Fonts", prompt=FALSE)
```


I receive the error message

```
Scanning ttf files in C:/Users/me/Desktop/Fonts ...
Extracting .afm files from .ttf files...
C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\arista-light.ttf : No FontName. Skipping.
C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\facebook-letter-faces.ttf : No FontName. Skipping.
C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\Guardian-EgypTT-Text-Regular.ttf : No FontName. Skipping.
C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\pico-black.ttf : No FontName. Skipping.
C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\product-sans.ttf : No FontName. Skipping.
Found FontName for 0 fonts.
Scanning afm files in C:/Users/me/Documents/R/R-3.6.3/library/extrafontdb/metrics
Warning messages:
1: In system2(ttf2pt1, c(args, shQuote(ttfiles[i]), shQuote(tmpfiles[i])),  :
  running command '"C:/Users/me/Documents/R/R-3.6.3/library/Rttf2pt1/exec/ttf2pt1.exe" -a -G fAe "C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\arista-light.ttf" "C:\Users\me\AppData\Local\Temp\RtmpOgbdTh/fonts/arista-light"' had status 1
2: In system2(ttf2pt1, c(args, shQuote(ttfiles[i]), shQuote(tmpfiles[i])),  :
  running command '"C:/Users/me/Documents/R/R-3.6.3/library/Rttf2pt1/exec/ttf2pt1.exe" -a -G fAe "C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\facebook-letter-faces.ttf" "C:\Users\me\AppData\Local\Temp\RtmpOgbdTh/fonts/facebook-letter-faces"' had status 1
3: In system2(ttf2pt1, c(args, shQuote(ttfiles[i]), shQuote(tmpfiles[i])),  :
  running command '"C:/Users/me/Documents/R/R-3.6.3/library/Rttf2pt1/exec/ttf2pt1.exe" -a -G fAe "C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\Guardian-EgypTT-Text-Regular.ttf" "C:\Users\me\AppData\Local\Temp\RtmpOgbdTh/fonts/Guardian-EgypTT-Text-Regular"' had status 1
4: In system2(ttf2pt1, c(args, shQuote(ttfiles[i]), shQuote(tmpfiles[i])),  :
  running command '"C:/Users/me/Documents/R/R-3.6.3/library/Rttf2pt1/exec/ttf2pt1.exe" -a -G fAe "C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\pico-black.ttf" "C:\Users\me\AppData\Local\Temp\RtmpOgbdTh/fonts/pico-black"' had status 1
5: In system2(ttf2pt1, c(args, shQuote(ttfiles[i]), shQuote(tmpfiles[i])),  :
  running command '"C:/Users/me/Documents/R/R-3.6.3/library/Rttf2pt1/exec/ttf2pt1.exe" -a -G fAe "C:\Users\me\Desktop\Fonts\product-sans.ttf" "C:\Users\me\AppData\Local\Temp\RtmpOgbdTh/fonts/product-sans"' had status 1
```


Based on this I have two questions:


1. How can I overcome the No FontName. Skipping. issue?
2. What are the warning messages trying to tell me and do I need to be concerned about this?



I would appreciate any help, many thanks in advance!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message "No FontName. Skipping." suggests that the `extrafont` package is unable to find the name of the font in the .ttf files. This could be due to several reasons:

1. The .ttf files might be corrupt or not properly formatted.
2. The font files might not contain a FontName, which is required by `extrafont`.
3. There might be a compatibility issue between the `extrafont` package and the font files.

Here are some suggestions to overcome this issue:

1. Check the integrity of the .ttf files. You can do this by trying to install the fonts manually on your system. If the fonts install correctly, then the files are likely not corrupt.
2. Try using a different set of font files. If other font files work correctly, then the issue might be with the specific font files you are trying to use.
3. Try updating the `extrafont` package to the latest version. There might be a bug in the version you are using that has been fixed in a later version.

The warning messages are related to the system calls that `extrafont` is making to extract the .afm files from the .ttf files. The status 1 indicates that the command did not execute successfully. This is likely related to the "No FontName. Skipping." issue. Once you resolve that issue, these warning messages should also be resolved.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message "No FontName. Skipping." indicates that the `extrafont` package is unable to find a name for the font in the TrueType font file (.ttf). This could be due to a variety of reasons, such as the font file being corrupt or not properly formatted.

Here are a few things you could try to resolve this issue:

1. **Check the font files**: Open the .ttf files in a font viewer to ensure they are not corrupt and are properly formatted.

2. **Use a different method to import the fonts**: Instead of using `extrafont`, you could try using the `sysfonts` package which provides a different method for importing and using fonts in R.

As for the warning messages, they are indicating that the system command being run by the `extrafont` package is failing. This is likely related to the "No FontName. Skipping." issue. Once you resolve the issue with the font files, these warning messages should also be resolved.

Here's how you can use `sysfonts` package to load fonts:

```r
install.packages("sysfonts")
library(sysfonts)

font_add("myfont", "C:/Users/me/Desktop/Fonts/myfont.ttf")
```

In this example, replace "myfont" with the name you want to use for the font in R, and replace "myfont.ttf" with the name of your .ttf file. After running these commands, you should be able to use the font in R with the name "myfont".

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message "No FontName. Skipping." means that the `extrafont` package is unable to find the name of the font within the font file. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as the font file being corrupt or not being a TrueType font (.ttf) file.

Here are some steps you can take to troubleshoot this issue:

1. **Check the font files**: Make sure the font files are not corrupt and are in the TrueType (.ttf) format. You can try opening the font files in a font viewer to see if they are valid and correctly formatted.

2. **Try different fonts**: If possible, try importing different font files to see if the problem is with the specific fonts you are trying to import.

3. **Reinstall the `extrafont` package**: Sometimes, reinstalling the package can help resolve issues. You can do this by running `remove.packages("extrafont")` and then `install.packages("extrafont")` in your R console.

As for the warning messages, they are related to the system command that `extrafont` is trying to run to extract the font metrics from the font files. The `status 1` indicates that the command failed, likely due to the same issue causing the "No FontName. Skipping." error.

If the above steps don't resolve your issue, it might be worth considering using a different method to use custom fonts in R, such as the `showtext` package, which can handle a wider variety of font formats.

--------
