
# Post \#63390194 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63390194/)

## Package ‘XXX’ was installed before R 4.0.0: please re-install it

**Vote**: 21 (256/702) **Views**: 27524 (244/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-319

Created at 2020-08-13 07:30:21

Tags: `r`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using R 4.0.2.
I manually installed 2 packages from `cfcdae` and `Stats5303lib` from [here](http://users.stat.umn.edu/%7Egary/classes/5303/software.html). I followed the instruction [here](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/) to download Rtools and use it to install packages above.
Problem is
```
writeLines('PATH="${RTOOLS40_HOME}\\usr\\bin;${PATH}"', con = "~/.Renviron") # runs fine
Sys.which("make") #works fine
                               make 
"C:\\rtools40\\usr\\bin\\make.exe" 
install.packages("Stat5303libs_0.7-5.zip",repos=NULL,type="source") # these all run fine
install.packages("cfcdae_0.8-4.zip",repos=NULL,type="source")  # these all run fine
```

However, when I ran into problem below when I tried to run the libraries.
```
Error: package or namespace load failed for ‘cfcdae’:
 package ‘cfcdae’ was installed before R 4.0.0: please re-install it
```

I tried below but still in vain.
```
update.packages(ask=FALSE, checkBuilt=TRUE)
```

Why is this happening? Is it because the package is too old?

As requested, i have changed my `.libPaths()` as below and updated the `SessionInfo()` as well.
```
> .libPaths()
[1] "C:/Users/UserME/Documents/R/win-library/4.0"
[2] "C:/Program Files/R/R-4.0.2/library"   

R version 4.0.2 (2020-06-22)
Platform: x86_64-w64-mingw32/x64 (64-bit)
Running under: Windows 10 x64 (build 18363)

Matrix products: default

locale:
[1] LC_COLLATE=English_Hong Kong SAR.1252  LC_CTYPE=English_Hong Kong SAR.1252   
[3] LC_MONETARY=English_Hong Kong SAR.1252 LC_NUMERIC=C                          
[5] LC_TIME=English_Hong Kong SAR.1252    

attached base packages:
[1] stats     graphics  grDevices utils     datasets  methods   base     

loaded via a namespace (and not attached):
 [1] Rcpp_1.0.4.6        rstudioapi_0.11     magrittr_1.5       
 [4] splines_4.0.2       MASS_7.3-51.6       tidyselect_1.1.0   
 [7] munsell_0.5.0       statmod_1.4.34      lattice_0.20-41    
[10] colorspace_1.4-1    R6_2.4.1            rlang_0.4.6        
[13] minqa_1.2.4         dplyr_1.0.0         tools_4.0.2        
[16] grid_4.0.2          nlme_3.1-148        gtable_0.3.0       
[19] ellipsis_0.3.1      lme4_1.1-23         tibble_3.0.1       
[22] lifecycle_0.2.0     numDeriv_2016.8-1.1 crayon_1.3.4       
[25] Matrix_1.2-18       nloptr_1.2.2.2      purrr_0.3.4        
[28] ggplot2_3.3.2       vctrs_0.3.1         glue_1.4.1         
[31] compiler_4.0.2      pillar_1.4.6        generics_0.0.2     
[34] scales_1.1.1        boot_1.3-25         lmerTest_3.1-2     
[37] pkgconfig_2.0.3
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is indicating that the package `cfcdae` was installed under an older version of R and needs to be reinstalled under your current version (R 4.0.2). 

However, you mentioned that you've already tried reinstalling the package and it didn't solve the problem. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The package is indeed too old and not compatible with your current version of R. The package you're trying to install (`cfcdae_0.8-4.zip`) seems to have been last updated in 2015, which might be causing compatibility issues with R 4.0.2.

2. There might be some issues with the package installation process. When you're installing the package, make sure you're specifying the correct path to the package file. Also, ensure that Rtools is properly installed and configured.

3. There might be some issues with the location where the packages are being installed. By default, R installs packages into a directory called "library" in your R installation directory. However, you can specify a different location using the `lib` argument in the `install.packages()` function. Make sure the packages are being installed into a directory that R can access.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Try reinstalling the package again, making sure you're specifying the correct path to the package file and that Rtools is properly installed and configured.

2. Try installing the package into a different directory using the `lib` argument in the `install.packages()` function.

3. If the package is indeed too old and not compatible with your current version of R, you might need to downgrade your R version to a version that's compatible with the package. However, this should be your last resort as it might cause other issues with your R environment.

4. You can also try contacting the package maintainer or the person who provided the package for further assistance. They might be able to provide you with an updated version of the package or help you troubleshoot the installation issue.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that the package was installed before R 4.0.0 and needs to be re-installed. However, you mentioned that you have already tried re-installing the package and it didn't work.

The problem could be due to the fact that the package is old and may not be compatible with R 4.0.2. The package `cfcdae` seems to be last updated in 2013 and the package `Stat5303libs` in 2011. It's possible that these packages are not compatible with the latest version of R.

Here are a few things you could try:

1. **Try installing the packages in a fresh R session**: Sometimes, if there are other packages loaded in the R session, they can interfere with the installation of new packages. Start a new R session and try installing the packages again.

2. **Try installing older version of R**: If the packages are not compatible with R 4.0.2, you could try installing an older version of R that is compatible with the packages. You can download older versions of R from [CRAN's archive](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/base/old/).

3. **Check if there are updated versions of the packages**: The packages you are trying to install seem to be quite old. Check if there are updated versions of the packages available. You can do this by going to the package's CRAN page and checking the "Old sources" section.

4. **Contact the package authors**: If none of the above solutions work, you could try contacting the authors of the packages. They might be able to provide you with a solution or an updated version of the package. You can usually find the author's contact information on the package's CRAN page.

Remember to always be careful when installing older versions of software, as they may contain bugs or security vulnerabilities that have been fixed in newer versions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message suggests that the package was installed under an older version of R and needs to be reinstalled under the current version. However, you've already tried reinstalling the package and it didn't solve the problem.

The packages you're trying to install are quite old and may not be compatible with the newer version of R you're using. The `cfcdae` package was last updated in 2012 and the `Stats5303lib` package was last updated in 2011. They may not work with R 4.0.2.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Downgrade your R version**: You can try installing an older version of R that's compatible with the packages. However, this might not be the best solution if you're using other packages that require a newer version of R.

2. **Check for updated versions of the packages**: The packages might have been updated under a different name or incorporated into other packages. You can try searching for them on CRAN or Bioconductor.

3. **Contact the package maintainers**: You can try contacting the package maintainers for help. They might be able to provide updated versions of the packages or suggest alternatives.

4. **Update the packages yourself**: If you're comfortable with R programming, you can try updating the packages yourself. This would involve fixing any errors and making sure the packages are compatible with the current version of R. However, this could be quite time-consuming and might not be feasible if you're not familiar with the package code.

5. **Find alternatives**: If you can't get the packages to work, you might need to find alternative packages that provide the same or similar functionality. You can search for alternatives on CRAN or Bioconductor, or ask for recommendations on R forums or Stack Overflow.

--------
