
# Post \#68760442 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68760442/)

## Relocate rows with tidyverse

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 2095 (602/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-332

Created at 2021-08-12 15:40:11

Tags: `r` `dplyr` `tidyverse` `tidyr` `relocate`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is it possible to `relocate`  in `tidyverse` framework like it is possible for columns with `dplyr` `relocate`?
In this example I would like to relocate row 1 to position 5 (end of dataframe)
My dataframe:
```
df <- structure(list(ID = c(1, 2, 3, 4, 5), var1 = c("a", "b", "c", 
"d", "e"), var2 = c(1, 1, 0, 0, 1)), class = "data.frame", row.names = c(NA, 
-5L))

df
  ID var1 var2
1  1    a    1
2  2    b    1
3  3    c    0
4  4    d    0
5  5    e    1
```

Desired output:
```
ID var1 var2
1  2    b    1
2  3    c    0
3  4    d    0
4  5    e    1
5  1    a    1
```

Note: In the it should be 'pipe friendly' solution. I tried a lot but found nothing. Thank you.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In the `tidyverse` framework, there isn't a direct function like `relocate` for rows. However, you can achieve the same result by using a combination of `slice` and `bind_rows` functions from `dplyr`. Here's how you can do it:

```r
library(dplyr)

df <- df %>% 
  slice(-1) %>% 
  bind_rows(df[1, ])
```

In this code, `slice(-1)` removes the first row from the dataframe and `bind_rows(df[1, ])` appends the first row to the end of the dataframe.

Here's the output:

```r
  ID var1 var2
1  2    b    1
2  3    c    0
3  4    d    0
4  5    e    1
5  1    a    1
```

This solution is 'pipe friendly' and can be easily integrated into a `tidyverse` pipeline.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In the tidyverse framework, there isn't a direct function like `relocate()` for rows. However, you can achieve the desired result by using a combination of `slice()` and `bind_rows()` functions from `dplyr`. Here is how you can do it:

```r
library(dplyr)

df <- df %>%
  slice(-1) %>%
  bind_rows(df[1, ])

print(df)
```

In this code, `slice(-1)` removes the first row from the dataframe and `bind_rows(df[1, ])` appends the first row to the end of the dataframe. The `%>%` operator is used to chain these operations together. 

This will give you the desired output:

```
  ID var1 var2
1  2    b    1
2  3    c    0
3  4    d    0
4  5    e    1
5  1    a    1
```

This solution is 'pipe friendly' as it uses the pipe operator (`%>%`) from the `magrittr` package, which is part of the `tidyverse`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `relocate` function in `dplyr` is specifically designed for moving columns, not rows. However, you can achieve your desired output by using a combination of `slice` and `bind_rows` functions from `dplyr`. Here's how you can do it:

```r
library(dplyr)

df <- df %>% 
  slice(-1) %>% 
  bind_rows(df[1, ])

print(df)
```

In this code, `slice(-1)` removes the first row from the dataframe and `bind_rows(df[1, ])` appends the first row to the end of the dataframe. The `%>%` operator is used to chain these operations together in a 'pipe friendly' manner.

This will give you the desired output:

```
  ID var1 var2
1  2    b    1
2  3    c    0
3  4    d    0
4  5    e    1
5  1    a    1
```

--------
