
# Post \#74489132 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74489132/)

## Remove comma inside quotes

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 339 (701/702) 

**Internal ID** \#1-4-326

Created at 2022-11-18 11:41:48

Tags: `r`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Data Science & Machine Learning`

Language: `r` (full parsed tag list: `r`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have strings like:
```
string <- "1, 2, \"something, else\""
```

I want to use `tidyr::separate_rows()` with `sep==","`, but the comma inside the quoted portion of the string is tripping me up. I'd like to remove the comma between something and else (but only this comma).
Here's a more complex toy example:
```
string <- c("1, 2, \"something, else\"", "3, 5, \"more, more, more\"", "6, \"commas, are fun\", \"no, they are not\"")

string
#[1] "1, 2, \"something, else\""                   
#[2] "3, 5, \"more, more, more\""                  
#[3] "6, \"commas, are fun\", \"no, they are not\""
```

I want to get rid of all commas inside the embedded quotations. Desired output:
```
[1] "1, 2, \"something else\""                  
[2] "3, 5, \"more more more\""                  
[3] "6, \"commas are fun\", \"no they are not\""
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `stringr` package to replace the commas inside the quotes. Here is a solution:

```r
library(stringr)

string <- c("1, 2, \"something, else\"", "3, 5, \"more, more, more\"", "6, \"commas, are fun\", \"no, they are not\"")

# Replace commas inside quotes
string <- str_replace_all(string, '(?<=\")([^"]+)(?=\")', function(x) gsub(",", "", x))

print(string)
```

This uses a regular expression to find all instances of text inside quotes, and then applies a function to replace all commas in that text. The `(?<=\")` and `(?=\")` parts of the regular expression are lookbehinds and lookaheads, respectively, which match the quotes but don't include them in the match. The `([^"]+)` part matches any text that isn't a quote.

Please note that this solution assumes that there are no escaped quotes inside the quoted text. If there are, you would need a more complex solution.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use `gsub` function in R to replace the commas inside the quotes. Here is the code:

```R
string <- c("1, 2, \"something, else\"", "3, 5, \"more, more, more\"", "6, \"commas, are fun\", \"no, they are not\"")

gsub('(\"[^\"]*),([^\"]*\")', '\\1 \\2', string, perl=TRUE)
```

This code uses a regular expression to find commas that are inside quotes and replace them with a space. The regular expression `(\"[^\"]*),([^\"]*\")` matches a quote, followed by any number of non-quote characters, a comma, any number of non-quote characters, and a quote. The `gsub` function then replaces this with the first and second matched groups (the parts in parentheses), separated by a space. The `perl=TRUE` argument is needed to enable the use of lookaheads and lookbehinds in the regular expression.

However, this will only replace the first comma inside each pair of quotes. If you have multiple commas inside the quotes and you want to replace all of them, you can use a loop:

```R
while(any(grepl('(\"[^\"]*),([^\"]*\")', string, perl=TRUE))) {
  string <- gsub('(\"[^\"]*),([^\"]*\")', '\\1 \\2', string, perl=TRUE)
}
```

This will keep replacing commas inside quotes until there are none left.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `stringr` package's `str_replace_all()` function in combination with a regular expression to accomplish this. The regular expression `"(?<=\")([^,]*),([^,]*)(?=\")"` will match any comma that is surrounded by any characters except commas and is within quotes. Here's how you can use it:

```r
library(stringr)

string <- c("1, 2, \"something, else\"", "3, 5, \"more, more, more\"", "6, \"commas, are fun\", \"no, they are not\"")

new_string <- str_replace_all(string, "(?<=\")([^,]*),([^,]*)(?=\")", "\\1 \\2")

print(new_string)
```

This will replace all commas inside quotes with a space. However, this will only work for two words separated by a comma inside quotes. If you have more than two words separated by commas inside quotes, you can use the following code:

```r
new_string <- str_replace_all(string, "(?<=\")([^,]*),([^,]*)(?=\")", "\\1 \\2")

while(any(str_detect(new_string, "(?<=\")([^,]*),([^,]*)(?=\")"))){
  new_string <- str_replace_all(new_string, "(?<=\")([^,]*),([^,]*)(?=\")", "\\1 \\2")
}

print(new_string)
```

This will keep replacing commas inside quotes until there are no more left. Note that this code uses a while loop, which can be dangerous if not used correctly (it can create infinite loops). In this case, the condition for the loop to continue is that there are still commas inside quotes, so it should be safe.

--------
