
# Post \#60353491 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60353491/)

## "Unrecognized option: --add-opens" Hyperledger Besu

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 28418 (238/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-352

Created at 2020-02-22 15:05:36

Tags: `java` `windows` `hyperledger`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to get started with Hyperledger Besu, after following the steps of the [official documentation here](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/HowTo/Get-Started/Starting-node/) and running the following command:

`bin\besu --help`

I get the following error:

```
C:\Users\user\Desktop\besu-1.3.9>bin\besu --help
Unrecognized option: --add-opens
Error: Could not create the Java Virtual Machine.
Error: A fatal exception has occurred. Program will exit.
```


I get the same thing when running `bin\besu` or `bin\besu -help`.

I don't know if the problem is with java's installation or with hyperledger besu trying to run unvalid/unrecognised option `bin\besu --add-opens`. I tried uninstalling then reinstalling java but this did not solve the issue, here is java's version:

```
C:\Users\user>java -version
Picked up _JAVA_OPTIONS: -Xmx512m
java version "1.8.0_241"
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_241-b07)
Java HotSpot(TM) Client VM (build 25.241-b07, mixed mode)
```


Any help would be appreciated!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing indicates that the `--add-opens` option is not recognized. This option is a JVM argument that is used to open certain modules for deep reflection. It was introduced in Java 9, and is not available in Java 8, which you're currently using.

Hyperledger Besu requires Java 11 or later to run. The version you're currently using, Java 1.8.0_241, is not compatible with Hyperledger Besu. 

To resolve this issue, you need to upgrade your Java version to at least Java 11. Here are the steps to do this:

1. Uninstall your current version of Java.
2. Download and install Java 11 or later. You can download it from the official Oracle website or use OpenJDK.
3. Verify the installation by running `java -version` in the command line. The output should show the version number that is 11 or later.
4. Try running the `bin\besu --help` command again. It should now work without any errors.

If you still encounter issues after upgrading Java, please let me know.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing indicates that the `--add-opens` option is not recognized. This is because the `--add-opens` option is a feature of Java 9 and later, but you're running Java 8.

Hyperledger Besu requires Java 11 or later to run. You can check the prerequisites in the official documentation [here](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/HowTo/Get-Started/Install-Binaries/#prerequisites).

So, you need to upgrade your Java version to at least Java 11. Here's how you can do it:

1. Uninstall your current Java version.
2. Download Java 11 JDK from the official Oracle website or you can use OpenJDK.
3. Install Java 11.
4. Verify the installation by running `java -version` in your command line. It should display something like:

```
java version "11.0.1" 2018-10-16 LTS
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS, mixed mode)
```

5. Now try running `bin\besu --help` again. It should work without any issues.

Remember to set the JAVA_HOME environment variable to point to your new Java installation directory.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing indicates that the `--add-opens` option is not recognized. This is because the `--add-opens` option is a feature of Java 9 and later, but you're running Java 8.

Hyperledger Besu requires Java 11 or later to run. You can check the prerequisites in the official documentation [here](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/HowTo/Get-Started/Install-Binaries/#prerequisites).

So, you need to upgrade your Java version to at least Java 11. Here's how you can do it:

1. Uninstall your current Java version.
2. Download Java 11 JDK from the official Oracle website or you can use OpenJDK.
3. Install Java 11.
4. Verify the installation by running `java -version` in your command line. It should display something like:

```
java version "11.0.1" 2018-10-16 LTS
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS, mixed mode)
```

5. Now try running `bin\besu --help` again. It should work without any issues.

Remember to set the JAVA_HOME environment variable to point to your new Java installation directory.

--------
