
# Post \#72388363 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72388363/)

## Java sort list with streams first by length then alphabetically

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 571 (688/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-356

Created at 2022-05-26 07:38:39

Tags: `java` `sorting` `java-stream` `compare` `comparator`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I can sort already by the description length, but how can I alphabetically sort two `Article` if two of them have the same length? (if the description of two articles has the same length, then the sorting should be alphabetical).
```
public List<Article> sortAsc() {
    removeNull();
    return articles.stream()
            .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt(a -> a.getDescription().length()))
            .collect(Collectors.toList());
}




public class ComparatorAppController implements Comparator<String> {

/***
 * compare each element
 * @param o1
 * @param o2
 * @return
 */
public int compare(String o1, String o2) {
    // check length in one direction
    if (o1.length() > o2.length()) {
        return 1;
    }
    // check length in the other direction
    else if (o1.length() < o2.length()) {
        return -1;
    }
    // if same alphabetical order
    return o1.compareTo(o2);
}
```

}
How can I use my Comparator for this situation? Or should I change it to something else?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `thenComparing` method of the `Comparator` interface to add a secondary sort. This method returns a lexicographic-order comparator with another comparator. If two elements are equal by the original comparator, then the secondary comparator is used.

Here's how you can modify your `sortAsc` method to sort by description length first, and then alphabetically if the lengths are equal:

```java
public List<Article> sortAsc() {
    removeNull();
    return articles.stream()
            .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt((Article a) -> a.getDescription().length())
                    .thenComparing(Article::getDescription))
            .collect(Collectors.toList());
}
```

In this code, `Comparator.comparingInt((Article a) -> a.getDescription().length())` sorts the articles by the length of their descriptions. If two articles have descriptions of the same length, `.thenComparing(Article::getDescription)` sorts those articles alphabetically by description.

You don't need to use your `ComparatorAppController` for this situation. The `Comparator` interface provides the methods you need to sort the articles as you want.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use `Comparator.thenComparing()` to specify a secondary sort order when the primary sort order results in a tie. In your case, you want to sort primarily by description length, and secondarily by alphabetical order of the description. Here's how you can do it:

```java
public List<Article> sortAsc() {
    removeNull();
    return articles.stream()
            .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt((Article a) -> a.getDescription().length())
                    .thenComparing(Article::getDescription))
            .collect(Collectors.toList());
}
```

In this code, `Comparator.comparingInt((Article a) -> a.getDescription().length())` sorts the articles by description length. If two articles have the same description length, `.thenComparing(Article::getDescription)` sorts them alphabetically by description.

You don't need the `ComparatorAppController` class in this case, because you can define the sorting behavior directly in the `sorted()` method call.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `thenComparing` method of the `Comparator` interface to chain multiple conditions. In your case, you want to sort by the length of the description first, and then by the description itself (alphabetically) if the lengths are equal. Here's how you can do it:

```java
public List<Article> sortAsc() {
    removeNull();
    return articles.stream()
            .sorted(Comparator.comparingInt((Article a) -> a.getDescription().length())
                    .thenComparing(Article::getDescription))
            .collect(Collectors.toList());
}
```

In this code, `Comparator.comparingInt((Article a) -> a.getDescription().length())` sorts the articles by the length of their descriptions. If two articles have descriptions of the same length, `.thenComparing(Article::getDescription)` sorts them alphabetically.

You don't need your `ComparatorAppController` class for this, as the `Comparator` interface provides all the functionality you need.

--------
