
# Post \#71427323 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71427323/)

## Gradle sync failed: Plugin [id: 'com.android.application', version: '7.1.2', apply: false] was not found in any of the following sources:

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 12637 (388/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-385

Created at 2022-03-10 16:12:00

Tags: `java` `android` `android-studio` `gradle`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have upgraded my Android Studio and after that I'm facing this error:
```
Gradle sync failed: Plugin [id: 'com.android.application', version: '7.1.2', apply: false] was not found in any of the following sources:
                - Gradle Core Plugins (plugin is not in 'org.gradle' namespace)
                - Plugin Repositories (could not resolve plugin artifact 'com.android.application:com.android.application.gradle.plugin:7.1.2')
                Searched in the following repositories:
                Gradle Central Plugin Repository
                Google
                MavenRepo (24 s 586 ms)
```

I have upgraded JDK to 11 but it didn't fix the error. What else can I do?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs when the Gradle version used by your project is not compatible with the Android Gradle Plugin version. To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Check the Gradle version used by your project. You can find it in the `gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties` file. The `distributionUrl` property specifies the Gradle version.

2. Check the compatibility of the Gradle version with the Android Gradle Plugin version. You can find the compatibility matrix in the Android Gradle Plugin release notes.

3. If the Gradle version is not compatible, update it to a compatible version. You can do this by changing the `distributionUrl` property in the `gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties` file.

4. If the compatible Gradle version is not available in your Gradle cache, Gradle will download it automatically.

5. After updating the Gradle version, sync your project with Gradle by clicking on the "Sync Project with Gradle Files" button in the toolbar or by running the `./gradlew clean build` command in the terminal.

If the issue persists, you can try deleting the `.gradle` directory in your project root directory and then syncing your project with Gradle again. This will force Gradle to download all the dependencies again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error occurs when the Gradle version used in your project is not compatible with the Android Gradle Plugin version. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Check the Gradle version used in your project. You can find it in the `gradle-wrapper.properties` file in the root directory of your project.

2. Check the latest version of the Android Gradle Plugin available. You can find it on the official Android Studio release notes page.

3. Update the Android Gradle Plugin version in your project's `build.gradle` file to the latest version.

4. If the latest version of the Android Gradle Plugin is not compatible with the Gradle version used in your project, you may need to update the Gradle version as well.

5. After updating the Android Gradle Plugin and/or Gradle version, try syncing your project again.

If the issue persists, you can try deleting the `.gradle` directory in your project's root directory and syncing the project again. This will force Gradle to download all dependencies again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error occurs when the Gradle plugin version specified in your project's build.gradle file is not available in any of the repositories that Gradle is searching. Here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Check your build.gradle file: Make sure that the plugin version specified in your build.gradle file is correct. If it is not correct, update it to the correct version.

2. Check your Gradle version: Make sure that you are using a compatible version of Gradle with the plugin version you are trying to use. You can check the compatibility matrix on the Android Studio website.

3. Check your repositories: Make sure that the repositories you are using in your build.gradle file are correct and up-to-date. You can try adding the Google Maven repository to your build.gradle file:

```
repositories {
    google()
    mavenCentral()
}
```

4. Invalidate caches and restart: Try invalidating caches and restarting Android Studio. This can sometimes fix issues with Gradle sync.

5. Clean and rebuild: Try cleaning your project and rebuilding it. This can sometimes fix issues with Gradle sync.

If none of these solutions work, you may need to try a different version of the Gradle plugin or seek further assistance from the Android Studio community.

--------
