
# Post \#59316518 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59316518/)

## Gradle task assembleDebug failed with exit code 1 (Runtime Exception)

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 24284 (268/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-350

Created at 2019-12-13 05:18:34

Tags: `java` `android` `gradle` `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `dart` `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

while starting a flutter application on vs code i am getting the following errors.

> Launching lib\main.dart on RMX1801 in debug mode...
  Exception in thread "main" java.lang.RuntimeException: Timeout of 120000 reached waiting for exclusive access to file: C:\Users\sanjay.gradle\wrapper\dists\gradle-5.6.2-all\9st6wgf78h16so49nn74lgtbb\gradle-5.6.2-all.zip
      at org.gradle.wrapper.ExclusiveFileAccessManager.access(ExclusiveFileAccessManager.java:61)
      at org.gradle.wrapper.Install.createDist(Install.java:48)
      at org.gradle.wrapper.WrapperExecutor.execute(WrapperExecutor.java:128)
      at org.gradle.wrapper.GradleWrapperMain.main(GradleWrapperMain.java:61)
  [!] Gradle threw an error while trying to update itself. Retrying the update...
  Exception in thread "main" java.lang.RuntimeException: Timeout of 120000 reached waiting for exclusive access to file: C:\Users\sanjay.gradle\wrapper\dists\gradle-5.6.2-all\9st6wgf78h16so49nn74lgtbb\gradle-5.6.2-all.zip
      at org.gradle.wrapper.ExclusiveFileAccessManager.access(ExclusiveFileAccessManager.java:61)
      at org.gradle.wrapper.Install.createDist(Install.java:48)
      at org.gradle.wrapper.WrapperExecutor.execute(WrapperExecutor.java:128)
      at org.gradle.wrapper.GradleWrapperMain.main(GradleWrapperMain.java:61)
  [!] Gradle threw an error while trying to update itself. Retrying the update...
  Gradle task assembleDebug failed with exit code 1
  Exited (sigterm)

I am not getting why this is occurring . What can be the reason for this and how can this be solved?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs when Gradle is unable to access a file due to exclusive access being held by another process. This can happen if another instance of Gradle is running or if the file is locked by another program.

To solve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Close any other instances of VS Code or Android Studio that may be running.
2. Delete the `C:\Users\sanjay.gradle` directory and restart VS Code.
3. If the issue persists, try deleting the `C:\Users\sanjay\.gradle` directory as well.
4. If the issue still persists, try restarting your computer and then running the application again.

If none of these steps work, you can try updating Gradle manually by downloading the latest version from the Gradle website and replacing the existing `gradle-wrapper.jar` file in your project's `gradle/wrapper` directory with the new one.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error occurs when Gradle is unable to access a file due to exclusive access being held by another process. This can happen if another instance of Gradle is running or if the file is locked by another program.

To solve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Close any running instances of Gradle or VS Code.
2. Delete the `C:\Users\sanjay.gradle` directory.
3. Restart VS Code and try running the Flutter application again.

If the issue persists, you can try updating Gradle manually by downloading the latest version from the Gradle website and replacing the `gradle-wrapper.jar` file in your project's `gradle/wrapper` directory with the new version. 

You can also try running the command `flutter clean` to clear any cached files and then running the application again.

If none of these solutions work, you can try reinstalling Flutter and VS Code.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error occurs when Gradle is unable to access a file because it is already being used by another process. In this case, it seems that Gradle is unable to access the file "gradle-5.6.2-all.zip" because it is being used exclusively by another process.

To solve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Close all instances of VS Code and any other applications that may be using Gradle.

2. Delete the "gradle-5.6.2-all.zip" file from the path "C:\Users\sanjay.gradle\wrapper\dists\gradle-5.6.2-all\9st6wgf78h16so49nn74lgtbb\".

3. Open VS Code and try running the Flutter application again. Gradle will download the file again and this time it should be able to access it without any issues.

If the issue persists, you can try updating Gradle to the latest version or manually downloading the Gradle distribution and setting the path in your project's Gradle settings.

--------
