
# Post \#71427323 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71427323/)

## Gradle sync failed: Plugin [id: 'com.android.application', version: '7.1.2', apply: false] was not found in any of the following sources:

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 12637 (388/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-385

Created at 2022-03-10 16:12:00

Tags: `java` `android` `android-studio` `gradle`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have upgraded my Android Studio and after that I'm facing this error:
```
Gradle sync failed: Plugin [id: 'com.android.application', version: '7.1.2', apply: false] was not found in any of the following sources:
                - Gradle Core Plugins (plugin is not in 'org.gradle' namespace)
                - Plugin Repositories (could not resolve plugin artifact 'com.android.application:com.android.application.gradle.plugin:7.1.2')
                Searched in the following repositories:
                Gradle Central Plugin Repository
                Google
                MavenRepo (24 s 586 ms)
```

I have upgraded JDK to 11 but it didn't fix the error. What else can I do?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that Gradle is unable to find the Android Gradle Plugin version 7.1.2. This might be due to a couple of reasons:

1. The version of Android Gradle Plugin you're trying to use is not yet available or doesn't exist. As of the time of writing this, the latest stable version of the Android Gradle Plugin is 7.0.2.

2. Your Android Studio is not able to connect to the internet to download the plugin.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check your Android Gradle Plugin version**: Make sure you're using a correct and available version of the Android Gradle Plugin. You can check the latest version from the [official Android Developer website](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/gradle-plugin). If you're not using the correct version, you can change it in your project level `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
dependencies {
    classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:7.0.2'
}
```

2. **Check your internet connection**: Make sure your Android Studio is able to connect to the internet to download the necessary plugins and dependencies.

3. **Check your Gradle version**: The Android Gradle Plugin version you're using might require a specific Gradle version. You can check the compatibility from the [official Android Developer website](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/gradle-plugin#updating-gradle). If you're not using the correct Gradle version, you can change it in your `gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties` file:

```properties
distributionUrl=https\://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-7.0.2-all.zip
```

4. **Invalidate Caches and Restart**: Sometimes, Android Studio might have cached some incorrect data. You can try invalidating these caches and restarting Android Studio by going to `File > Invalidate Caches / Restart... > Invalidate and Restart`.

5. **Check your Proxy Settings**: If you're behind a proxy, you might need to configure your proxy settings in Android Studio. You can do this by going to `File > Settings > Appearance & Behavior > System Settings > HTTP Proxy`.

After making these changes, try to sync your Gradle files again.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that Gradle is unable to find the Android Gradle plugin with version 7.1.2. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The Android Gradle plugin version is not compatible with your Gradle version. You need to ensure that your Gradle version is compatible with the Android Gradle plugin version. You can check the compatibility from the official Android Developers website.

2. The Android Gradle plugin version 7.1.2 might not be available yet. As of my knowledge, the latest stable version is 7.0.4. You can try downgrading the version to 7.0.4 or the latest stable version available at your time.

To do this, open your `build.gradle` file (Project level) and change the classpath in the dependencies block to the latest stable version:

```gradle
dependencies {
    classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:7.0.4'
}
```

Also, make sure that you have the correct repositories in your `build.gradle` file:

```gradle
repositories {
    google()
    mavenCentral()
}
```

After making these changes, try to sync your project again. If the problem persists, try invalidating caches and restarting Android Studio (File -> Invalidate Caches / Restart... -> Invalidate and Restart).

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that Gradle is unable to find the Android Gradle Plugin with version '7.1.2'. This could be due to several reasons, such as an incorrect configuration in your build.gradle files, or a network issue preventing Gradle from downloading the plugin from the specified repositories.

Here are a few steps you can try to resolve this issue:

1. **Check your Android Studio version**: Make sure you are using the latest version of Android Studio Arctic Fox (2020.3.1) or later, which supports Android Gradle Plugin 7.0.0 and above.

2. **Check your Android Gradle Plugin version**: The error message indicates that it's looking for version '7.1.2', which might not be available yet. As of now, the latest stable version is '7.0.2'. You can change this in your project-level build.gradle file:

```groovy
dependencies {
    classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:7.0.2'
}
```

3. **Check your Gradle version**: Android Gradle Plugin '7.0.2' requires Gradle 7.0.2 or higher. You can specify the Gradle version in your gradle-wrapper.properties file:

```properties
distributionUrl=https\://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-7.0.2-all.zip
```

4. **Check your repositories**: Make sure you have google() and mavenCentral() in both your buildscript and allprojects repositories in your project-level build.gradle file:

```groovy
buildscript {
    repositories {
        google()
        mavenCentral()
    }
    ...
}

allprojects {
    repositories {
        google()
        mavenCentral()
    }
}
```

5. **Sync your project**: After making these changes, try to sync your project again with Gradle files.

6. **Check your network connection**: If you're still having issues, it might be a network problem. Check your internet connection and try again. If you're behind a proxy, you might need to configure your proxy settings for Gradle.

7. **Invalidate caches / Restart**: If none of the above solutions work, you can try to invalidate caches and restart Android Studio. You can find this option in the 'File' menu.

Remember to always keep your Android Studio and Android Gradle Plugin updated to the latest stable versions to avoid such issues.

--------
