
# Post \#58411279 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58411279/)

## Java with maven wouldn't build: Cannot run program "cmd" "Malformed argument has embedded quote"

**Vote**: 40 (158/702) **Views**: 71018 (122/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-348

Created at 2019-10-16 10:35:12

Tags: `java` `windows` `maven` `netbeans-11`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've a fresh install of netbean 11.1. 
Now I'm trying to build a project but I get the following error output: 

> Cannot run program "cmd" (in directory "C:\projects\open"): Malformed
  argument has embedded quote: "C:\Program
  Files\NetBeans-11.1\netbeans\java\maven\bin\mvn.cmd"

```
cd C:\projects\open; "JAVA_HOME=C:\\Program Files\\Java\\jdk-11.0.5" cmd /c "\"\"C:\\Program Files\\NetBeans-11.1\\netbeans\\java\\maven\\bin\\mvn.cmd\" -DskipTests=true -Dmaven.ext.class.path=\"C:\\Program Files\\NetBeans-11.1\\netbeans\\java\\maven-nblib\\netbeans-eventspy.jar\" -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 clean install\"" Cannot run program "cmd" (in directory "C:\projects\open"): Malformed argument has embedded quote: "C:\Program Files\NetBeans-11.1\netbeans\java\maven\bin\mvn.cmd" -DskipTests=true -Dmaven.ext.class.path="C:\Program Files\NetBeans-11.1\netbeans\java\maven-nblib\netbeans-eventspy.jar" -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 clean install
```


I've build this project with netbeans 11.1 before but have a new pc.
and a fresh install, tho I'm sure there was no problem last time I tried to install everything.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there is an issue with the command prompt (cmd) on your system. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Check if the "cmd" program is installed on your system. You can do this by opening the command prompt and typing "cmd" and pressing enter. If it opens, then it is installed. If not, you may need to reinstall it.

2. Check if there are any special characters in the path to your NetBeans installation directory. If there are, try moving the installation directory to a location without any special characters in the path.

3. Try running NetBeans as an administrator. Right-click on the NetBeans icon and select "Run as administrator".

4. Try reinstalling NetBeans and make sure to install it with administrative privileges.

If none of these steps work, you may need to seek further assistance from the NetBeans support team or a professional IT technician.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like there is an issue with the command prompt (cmd) on your system. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Check if the "cmd" program is available on your system by opening the command prompt and typing "cmd". If it is not available, you may need to reinstall it.

2. If "cmd" is available, try running the command prompt as an administrator and then running the build command again.

3. If the issue persists, try modifying the build command to use a different shell program. For example, you can replace "cmd" with "powershell" or "bash" depending on your system.

4. You can also try reinstalling NetBeans and/or Maven to ensure that all the necessary components are properly installed.

Hopefully, one of these steps will help you resolve the issue and successfully build your project.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like there is an issue with the command prompt (cmd) on your system. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Check if the "cmd" program is installed on your system. You can do this by opening the command prompt and typing "cmd" and pressing enter. If it opens, then it is installed.

2. If "cmd" is installed, try running NetBeans as an administrator. Right-click on the NetBeans icon and select "Run as administrator".

3. If running NetBeans as an administrator doesn't work, try reinstalling NetBeans and make sure to install it in a directory that doesn't have any spaces in the path.

4. If none of the above steps work, you can try reinstalling the Java Development Kit (JDK) and make sure to select the option to add it to the system path during installation.

Hopefully, one of these steps will resolve the issue and allow you to build your project successfully.

--------
