
# Post \#68871952 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68871952/)

## How to use Jpackage to make a distribution format for JavaFX applications

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 4849 (525/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-386

Created at 2021-08-21 09:57:41

Tags: `java` `javafx` `javafx-11` `jpackage`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

since .jar is not anymore the best format to use to distribute our JavaFX project, I'm willing to use the tool JPackage for that instead, but after reading this post : [https://stackoverflow.com/a/68823040/4262407](https://stackoverflow.com/a/68823040/4262407), I ended up having multiple questions, but first of all, I just wanna make sure I ve well understood the process that I should follow :
the process :
1-create a modular project
2-package the project in a .jar format
3-use the tool Jlink to create a customized run-time image (to reduce the size of the output)
4-use the tool jpackage (it takes 2 and 3 as inputs)
I'm also wondering if I can rely on Intellij artifacts to create the .jar file (the 2 step) is it better to use a specific plugin ?
The last thing that is not clear is do we need to include the dependencies in the .jar file ? since I believe they will be included in the customized run time, won't they?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you have understood the process correctly. Here are the answers to your other questions:

1. Yes, you can use IntelliJ artifacts to create the .jar file. You don't need a specific plugin for that. You can create an artifact by going to File > Project Structure > Artifacts and then add a new artifact of type "JAR". You can then configure the output directory and the main class for the artifact.

2. No, you don't need to include the dependencies in the .jar file. The dependencies will be included in the customized runtime image created by JLink. However, you need to make sure that your project is using modular dependencies, which means that the dependencies are declared in the module-info.java file. If you are using non-modular dependencies, you will need to include them in the runtime image manually.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you have understood the process correctly. Here are the answers to your other questions:

1. Yes, you can use IntelliJ artifacts to create the .jar file. You don't need a specific plugin for that. You can create an artifact by going to File -> Project Structure -> Artifacts -> click on the "+" button -> JAR -> From modules with dependencies. Then select your main class and choose the option to copy the dependencies into the output JAR.

2. No, you don't need to include the dependencies in the .jar file. They will be included in the customized run-time image created by Jlink. However, if you want to distribute your application as a single executable JAR file, you can choose to include the dependencies in the JAR file. This will make the distribution easier, but the file size will be larger.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you have understood the process correctly. Here are the answers to your other questions:

1. Yes, you can use IntelliJ artifacts to create the .jar file. You don't need a specific plugin for that. You can create a new artifact by going to File > Project Structure > Artifacts and then selecting "JAR" from the list of available artifacts. You can then configure the artifact settings as per your requirements.

2. No, you don't need to include the dependencies in the .jar file. When you create a customized runtime image using Jlink, it will include all the necessary dependencies. However, you need to make sure that your project is modular and that you have specified the module dependencies correctly in your module-info.java file. This will ensure that the necessary modules are included in the runtime image.

--------
