
# Post \#57822861 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57822861/)

## What is the difference between @RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject)) and @RequiredArgsConstructor?

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 21605 (285/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-363

Created at 2019-09-06 13:21:23

Tags: `java` `spring` `lombok` `inject`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is the difference between Lombok's 

```
@RequiredArgsConstructor
```


and 

```
@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))
```


I know that `RequiredArgsConstructor` injects all the final dependencies in constructor only.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `@RequiredArgsConstructor` annotation in Lombok is used to generate a constructor with parameters for all final fields, as well as any fields marked as `@NonNull`. This is useful to ensure that these fields are always initialized when an instance of the class is created.

The `@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))` is a bit more specific. It does the same thing as `@RequiredArgsConstructor`, but it also adds the `@Inject` annotation to the generated constructor. 

The `@Inject` annotation is part of the Java CDI (Contexts and Dependency Injection) standard. It's used to mark a constructor, field, or method as to be dependency injected. In other words, it's a way of telling the system, "Hey, I need an instance of this class. Please create one for me and set it here."

So, the difference between the two is that the latter one is used when you want the generated constructor to be used for dependency injection.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

`@RequiredArgsConstructor` is a Lombok annotation that generates a constructor with required arguments. Required arguments are final fields and fields with constraints such as @NonNull that need to be initialized.

`@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))` is a variant of the `@RequiredArgsConstructor` annotation that additionally adds the `@Inject` annotation to the generated constructor. 

The `@Inject` annotation is a standard Java annotation defined by JSR 330, which specifies APIs for dependency injection. It's used to automatically inject dependencies into an object. 

So, the difference between the two is that the latter one is used when you want the generated constructor to be used for dependency injection.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

`@RequiredArgsConstructor` and `@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))` both are annotations provided by Project Lombok to reduce boilerplate code in Java. They generate a constructor with required arguments.

1. `@RequiredArgsConstructor`: This Lombok annotation generates a constructor with required parameters. Required parameters are final fields and fields with constraints such as @NonNull that need to be initialized.

2. `@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))`: This is a special case of `@RequiredArgsConstructor` where you are instructing Lombok to generate a constructor with required parameters and also annotate that constructor with `@Inject`. 

The `@Inject` annotation is used for dependency injection. This means that the class dependencies are not created by the class itself but are provided by external means, often through a constructor. 

So, the difference between the two is that the latter one is used when you want to use dependency injection (usually in Spring or Java EE applications) to provide the required parameters, while the former one is used when you want to provide the required parameters by yourself.

--------
