
# Post \#49940719 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49940719/)

## How to log data to the Flutter console?

**Vote**: 169 (28/702) **Views**: 232300 (28/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-335

Created at 2018-04-20 11:33:08

Tags: `intellij-idea` `console` `dart` `flutter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `dart` `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am a beginner and using IntelliJ IDEA, and I wanted to log data to the console?
I tried `print()` and `printDebug()`, but none of my data were showing in the Flutter console.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Dart and Flutter, you can use the `print()` function to log data to the console. However, sometimes the IDE console might not display the logs properly. 

Here's how you can print to the console in Dart/Flutter:

```dart
print('Hello, Console');
```

If you're not seeing any output in IntelliJ IDEA, it might be because of the following reasons:

1. You're looking at the wrong console. In IntelliJ IDEA, there are multiple places where console output can appear. Make sure you're looking at the right one. For a Flutter app, you should be looking at the "Run" tab.

2. Your app might not be running in debug mode. Make sure you're running your app in debug mode to see console output.

3. There might be an issue with your IntelliJ IDEA setup. Try restarting IntelliJ IDEA or invalidating the cache and restarting (File -> Invalidate Caches / Restart).

4. If you're using an emulator or a real device, try to check the logs using the 'adb logcat' command in the terminal. This will show you all the logs from your device.

If none of these work, you might want to consider using a logging package like `logger`. This package provides a nice, clean way to log messages and includes additional features like logging levels and log formatting.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Flutter, you can use the `print()` function to log data to the console. However, if you're not seeing any output, there could be a few reasons for this. Here are some things you can try:

1. Make sure you're running your app in debug mode. In IntelliJ IDEA, you can do this by clicking on the bug icon in the toolbar.

2. Check if you have any filters set up in your console that might be hiding your logs. You can do this by going to the "Logcat" tab in IntelliJ IDEA and checking the "Show only selected application" option.

3. Try using the `debugPrint()` function instead of `print()`. The `debugPrint()` function is similar to `print()`, but it throttles the output to avoid dropping logs when the rate of logs is high.

Here's an example of how you can use `print()` and `debugPrint()`:

```dart
print('This is a print message');

debugPrint('This is a debugPrint message');
```

Remember to import the `foundation.dart` package to use `debugPrint()`:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/foundation.dart';
```

If you're still not seeing any logs, there might be an issue with your IntelliJ IDEA setup. You might want to try restarting IntelliJ IDEA or reinstalling the Flutter and Dart plugins.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Flutter, the `print()` function should work for logging data to the console. If you're not seeing any output, it could be due to a few reasons:

1. The program isn't reaching the point where `print()` is called. Make sure the `print()` statement is in a part of your code that is actually being executed.

2. There's an error occurring before the `print()` statement is reached. Check your console for any error messages.

3. IntelliJ IDEA's console might be filtering out your logs. Check the settings of your console to make sure it's showing all logs.

Here's an example of how you can use `print()` in Flutter:

```dart
void main() {
  print('Hello, World!');
}
```

When you run this program, "Hello, World!" should be printed to the console.

If you're trying to debug your Flutter application, you might find the `debugPrint()` function useful. It behaves similarly to `print()`, but it throttles the output to a level that avoids being dropped by the system:

```dart
void main() {
  debugPrint('Hello, Debug World!');
}
```

Remember to import the foundation library to use `debugPrint()`:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/foundation.dart';
```

If you're still having trouble, please provide more information about your problem so I can give you a more specific solution.

--------
