
# Post \#57822861 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57822861/)

## What is the difference between @RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject)) and @RequiredArgsConstructor?

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 21605 (285/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-363

Created at 2019-09-06 13:21:23

Tags: `java` `spring` `lombok` `inject`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is the difference between Lombok's 

```
@RequiredArgsConstructor
```


and 

```
@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))
```


I know that `RequiredArgsConstructor` injects all the final dependencies in constructor only.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

`@RequiredArgsConstructor` is a Lombok annotation that generates a constructor with parameters for all final fields in the class. This is useful for reducing boilerplate code when creating constructors for classes with many final fields.

`@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))` is a variation of `@RequiredArgsConstructor` that also adds the `@Inject` annotation to the generated constructor. This is useful when using a dependency injection framework like Spring or Guice, where the `@Inject` annotation is needed to indicate which dependencies should be injected into the constructor.

So, the main difference between the two is that `@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))` adds the `@Inject` annotation to the generated constructor, while `@RequiredArgsConstructor` does not.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

`@RequiredArgsConstructor` is a Lombok annotation that generates a constructor with parameters for all final fields in a class. This constructor can be used to create an instance of the class with all the required dependencies injected.

`@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))` is a variation of `@RequiredArgsConstructor` that also adds the `@Inject` annotation to the generated constructor. This is useful when using a dependency injection framework like Spring or Guice, as it allows the framework to automatically inject the required dependencies when creating an instance of the class.

In summary, the main difference between the two annotations is that `@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))` adds the `@Inject` annotation to the generated constructor, which can be useful when using a dependency injection framework.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The `@RequiredArgsConstructor` annotation from Lombok generates a constructor with parameters for all final fields in the class. This is useful for reducing boilerplate code when creating immutable objects.

The difference between `@RequiredArgsConstructor` and `@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))` is that the latter also adds the `@Inject` annotation to the generated constructor. This is useful when using a dependency injection framework like Spring or Guice, as it tells the framework to inject the dependencies into the constructor.

So, if you are using a dependency injection framework and want to inject the dependencies into the constructor, you should use `@RequiredArgsConstructor(onConstructor = @__(@Inject))`. Otherwise, you can just use `@RequiredArgsConstructor`.

--------
