
# Post \#60081577 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60081577/)

## What is best way of reading test data from CSV file with JUnit 5?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 11848 (396/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-378

Created at 2020-02-05 18:00:14

Tags: `java` `unit-testing` `csv` `junit` `junit5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `csv` `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is best/suggested way of reading test data from CSV file with JUnit 5?

Assuming one line is one test case, one column is one parameter, number of columns is fixed and different columns can have different (basic) types: String, int, double. 

An example would be:

```
public class Test{

    @Test
    // ready to use annotation that may load parameters from each line 
    public void shouldCalculateDiscount(String column1, long column2, double column3) {
        assertEquals(5, column1.length());
        assertEquals(column3, column2, 0.0001);
    }
}
```


CSV file example:

```
column1,column2,column3
a,0,0.0
abcde,1,1.01
a-b-c,999,999.0
```


Approach that uses annotations would be perfect, probably something analogical to JUnit's @ParameterizedTest.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

JUnit 5 provides a way to parameterize tests using the `@ParameterizedTest` annotation along with the `@CsvFileSource` annotation. The `@CsvFileSource` annotation allows you to specify a CSV file from which the test data will be loaded.

Here is an example of how you can use these annotations to load test data from a CSV file:

```java
import org.junit.jupiter.params.ParameterizedTest;
import org.junit.jupiter.params.provider.CsvFileSource;

public class Test {

    @ParameterizedTest
    @CsvFileSource(resources = "/test-data.csv", numLinesToSkip = 1)
    public void shouldCalculateDiscount(String column1, long column2, double column3) {
        assertEquals(5, column1.length());
        assertEquals(column3, column2, 0.0001);
    }
}
```

In this example, the `@CsvFileSource` annotation specifies that the test data should be loaded from a CSV file named `test-data.csv` located in the resources directory. The `numLinesToSkip` attribute is used to skip the header line in the CSV file.

Each line in the CSV file will be used to invoke the `shouldCalculateDiscount` test method once, with the values from the line being passed as arguments to the test method.

Note: The CSV file should be located in the classpath. If you're using a typical Maven project structure, you can put the CSV file in the `src/test/resources` directory.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

JUnit 5 provides a built-in way to read test data from a CSV file using the `@CsvFileSource` annotation. This annotation is used in conjunction with `@ParameterizedTest`. 

Here's how you can use it:

```java
import org.junit.jupiter.params.ParameterizedTest;
import org.junit.jupiter.params.provider.CsvFileSource;

public class Test {

    @ParameterizedTest
    @CsvFileSource(resources = "/test-data.csv", numLinesToSkip = 1)
    public void shouldCalculateDiscount(String column1, long column2, double column3) {
        assertEquals(5, column1.length());
        assertEquals(column3, column2, 0.0001);
    }
}
```

In the above code, `@CsvFileSource` reads the CSV file from the classpath. The `resources` attribute specifies the path to the CSV file. The `numLinesToSkip` attribute is used to skip the header row.

The CSV file (`test-data.csv`) should be located in the `resources` folder in your project.

This approach allows you to easily parameterize your tests with different sets of data from a CSV file. The parameters for each test case are derived from the lines in the CSV file. Each line in the CSV file corresponds to a single invocation of the parameterized test, and the comma-separated values in each line will be used as arguments for the test method.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

JUnit 5 provides the `@CsvFileSource` annotation for reading test data from CSV files. It is used in conjunction with the `@ParameterizedTest` annotation. 

Here's how you can use it:

```java
import org.junit.jupiter.params.ParameterizedTest;
import org.junit.jupiter.params.provider.CsvFileSource;

public class Test{

    @ParameterizedTest
    @CsvFileSource(resources = "/test-data.csv", numLinesToSkip = 1)
    public void shouldCalculateDiscount(String column1, long column2, double column3) {
        assertEquals(5, column1.length());
        assertEquals(column3, column2, 0.0001);
    }
}
```

In this example, the `@CsvFileSource` annotation is used to specify the CSV file from which the test data should be read. The `resources` attribute is used to specify the path to the CSV file. The `numLinesToSkip` attribute is used to skip the header line in the CSV file.

The CSV file (`test-data.csv`) should be placed in the `src/test/resources` directory.

The `@ParameterizedTest` annotation is used to indicate that this is a parameterized test. The method parameters (`column1`, `column2`, `column3`) correspond to the columns in the CSV file.

Please note that the CSV file should not contain any spaces between the commas and the values. If there are spaces, they will be included in the test data.

--------
