
# Post \#72113314 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72113314/)

## Fortify's denial of service problem in stringbuilder in java

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 1361 (633/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-359

Created at 2022-05-04 12:51:55

Tags: `java` `memory` `stringbuilder` `fortify`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Fortify client gives the error and recommendations for string builder,

```
StringBuilder sb=new StringBuilder();    
sb.append(request.getParameter("id"));
sb.append(request.getParameter("name"));
sb.append(request.getParameter("question"));
sb.append(request.getParameter("answer"));
```


User-controlled data is appended to a StringBuilder instance initialized with the default constructor
Appending user-controlled data to a StringBuilder or StringBuffer instance initialized with the default backing character array
size (16) can cause the application to consume large amounts of heap memory while resizing the underlying array to fit user's
data. When data is appended to a StringBuilder or StringBuffer instance, the instance will determine if the backing character
array has enough free space to store the data. If the data does not fit, the StringBuilder or StringBuffer instance will create a new
array with a capacity of at least double the previous array size, and the old array will remain in the heap until it is garbage
collected. Attackers can use this implementation detail to execute a Denial of Service (DoS) attack.

Initialize the StringBuilder or StringBuffer with an initial capacity of the expected appended data size to reduce the number of
times the backing array is resized. Check the size of the data before appending it to a StringBuilder or StringBuffer instance.
```
...
private final int BUFFER_CAPACITY = 5200;
StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder(BUFFER_CAPACITY);
...
final String lineSeparator = System.lineSeparator();
String[] labels = request.getParameterValues("label");
for (String label : labels) {
if (label.length() + lineSeparator.length() + sb.length()<= sb.capacity()) {
sb.append(label).append(lineSeparator);
} else {
// Handle error
}
}
```



1. If the garbage collectors free it's memory , how the attacker can cause denial of service attack? does it applicable ?
2. My requirement to store the dynamic data range of 0 to 12000 max characters in string builder , so if i use 12000 characters to initialize the string builder , then if my input has only 100 character string means , remaining 11900 length of memory is not required . so in that case do i really needs to set the max of characters in String Builder capacity ? or i can go with length validation for my input parameters only with default constructor?


what will be the better solution for this problem?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

1. Even though the garbage collector frees up memory, the attacker can still cause a denial of service attack by repeatedly appending large amounts of data to the StringBuilder or StringBuffer instance, causing the application to consume large amounts of heap memory while resizing the underlying array to fit the data. This can lead to the application running out of memory and crashing.

2. It is not necessary to set the maximum number of characters in the StringBuilder capacity if you are validating the length of the input parameters. However, initializing the StringBuilder with an initial capacity that is close to the expected maximum length of the appended data can improve performance by reducing the number of times the backing array is resized.

A better solution for this problem would be to initialize the StringBuilder with an initial capacity that is close to the expected maximum length of the appended data, and also validate the length of the input parameters before appending them to the StringBuilder. This can help reduce the number of times the backing array is resized and also prevent the application from consuming large amounts of heap memory. Additionally, you can consider using a StringBuilder pool to reuse StringBuilder instances and reduce memory usage.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

1. The attacker can cause a denial of service attack by repeatedly appending large amounts of data to the StringBuilder or StringBuffer instance, causing it to resize the backing array multiple times and consume a large amount of heap memory. Even if the garbage collector frees the memory, the application may still experience performance degradation or crashes due to the excessive memory usage.

2. It is recommended to initialize the StringBuilder or StringBuffer with an initial capacity that is close to the expected maximum size of the appended data. If the input data size is variable, you can estimate the maximum size based on the expected range and add some buffer space to avoid frequent resizing of the backing array. For example, if the maximum input size is 12000 characters, you can initialize the StringBuilder with a capacity of 13000 or 14000 characters to allow for some extra space.

However, if the input size is much smaller than the maximum expected size, you can still use the default constructor and validate the input length before appending it to the StringBuilder or StringBuffer instance. This can help reduce the memory usage and avoid unnecessary resizing of the backing array.

In summary, the better solution depends on the specific requirements and constraints of your application. If you have a good estimate of the maximum input size, initializing the StringBuilder or StringBuffer with an appropriate capacity can improve performance and prevent DoS attacks. If the input size is variable or uncertain, you can use length validation and/or dynamic resizing to balance memory usage and performance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

1. The attacker can cause a denial of service attack by repeatedly appending large amounts of data to the StringBuilder or StringBuffer instance, causing it to resize the backing array multiple times and consume a large amount of heap memory. Even if the garbage collector frees the memory, the repeated resizing of the backing array can cause the application to slow down or crash.

2. It is not necessary to set the maximum capacity of the StringBuilder to 12000 if you only expect inputs of up to 100 characters. You can use the default constructor and validate the length of the input parameters before appending them to the StringBuilder. However, if you expect inputs to be closer to the maximum capacity, it may be more efficient to set the initial capacity of the StringBuilder to a value closer to the expected input size to reduce the number of times the backing array needs to be resized.

A better solution would be to use a combination of both approaches. Set the initial capacity of the StringBuilder to a value that is close to the expected input size, but also validate the length of the input parameters before appending them to the StringBuilder to prevent the StringBuilder from resizing the backing array unnecessarily. Additionally, you can consider using a pool of StringBuilder instances to reduce the overhead of creating new instances for each request.

--------
