
# Post \#53292263 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53292263/)

## Send PathVariable @PostMapping in postman

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 61280 (138/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-349

Created at 2018-11-14 02:19:02

Tags: `java` `spring` `spring-mvc`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want send path variable in post mapping, in postman software.I select post mapping body and then how to do? I checked with [@RequestParam vs @PathVariable](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13715811/requestparam-vs-pathvariable) example,all answers for get method, But I need answer for post method.

```
@RestController
@RequestMapping("api/v1/customers") 
public class CustomerController {

@PostMapping("/{code}")
    public String postRequest(@PathVariable String code,@RequestBody CustomerDTO dto){
         System.out.println(dto);
         System.out.println(code);
         return "Something";
    }
}
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In your code, you are already using `@PathVariable` to get the `code` from the URL. You can send this `code` as a path variable in Postman.

Here's how to do it:

1. Open Postman.
2. Select POST from the dropdown.
3. Enter your URL in the URL bar. Replace `{code}` with the actual value you want to send. For example, if your server is running on `localhost:8080` and you want to send `123` as the `code`, your URL will be `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/customers/123`.
4. Go to the `Body` tab.
5. Select `raw` and `JSON` from the dropdown.
6. Enter your `CustomerDTO` object in JSON format in the text area. For example, if your `CustomerDTO` has `name` and `email` fields, your JSON will look like this:

```json
{
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com"
}
```

7. Click `Send`.

Your server should now receive the `code` as a path variable and the `CustomerDTO` object as the request body.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Postman, you can send a path variable in a POST request as follows:

1. Open Postman.
2. Select POST from the dropdown list.
3. In the URL field, enter the URL of your API endpoint. Replace `{code}` with the actual value you want to send. For example, if your server is running on localhost port 8080, and you want to send `123` as the `code`, you would enter: `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/customers/123`.
4. In the `Body` tab, select `raw` and `JSON` from the dropdown list.
5. Enter the JSON representation of your `CustomerDTO` object in the text field. For example:

```json
{
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com"
}
```

6. Click the `Send` button to send the request.

In your `postRequest` method, `@PathVariable String code` will receive the value from the URL, and `@RequestBody CustomerDTO dto` will receive the JSON object from the request body.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In your case, you are using a `@PathVariable` which is a part of the URL itself, and a `@RequestBody` which is the body of the HTTP request.

To send a request using Postman, follow these steps:

1. Set the HTTP method to POST.
2. In the URL field, enter the URL of your endpoint. For example, if your server is running locally on port 8080, and you want to send a request to the `api/v1/customers` endpoint with a `code` of `123`, you would enter `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/customers/123`.
3. In the `Body` tab, select `raw` and `JSON` from the dropdown menu.
4. Enter your `CustomerDTO` object in JSON format in the text field. For example:
```json
{
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com"
}
```
5. Click `Send` to send the request.

This will send a POST request to your server with the `code` as a path variable and the `CustomerDTO` object as the request body. The server should then print the `CustomerDTO` object and the `code` to the console.

--------
