
# Post \#60353491 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60353491/)

## "Unrecognized option: --add-opens" Hyperledger Besu

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 28418 (238/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-352

Created at 2020-02-22 15:05:36

Tags: `java` `windows` `hyperledger`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to get started with Hyperledger Besu, after following the steps of the [official documentation here](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/HowTo/Get-Started/Starting-node/) and running the following command:

`bin\besu --help`

I get the following error:

```
C:\Users\user\Desktop\besu-1.3.9>bin\besu --help
Unrecognized option: --add-opens
Error: Could not create the Java Virtual Machine.
Error: A fatal exception has occurred. Program will exit.
```


I get the same thing when running `bin\besu` or `bin\besu -help`.

I don't know if the problem is with java's installation or with hyperledger besu trying to run unvalid/unrecognised option `bin\besu --add-opens`. I tried uninstalling then reinstalling java but this did not solve the issue, here is java's version:

```
C:\Users\user>java -version
Picked up _JAVA_OPTIONS: -Xmx512m
java version "1.8.0_241"
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_241-b07)
Java HotSpot(TM) Client VM (build 25.241-b07, mixed mode)
```


Any help would be appreciated!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the issue is with the version of Java you are using. Hyperledger Besu requires Java 11 or higher to run, and you are currently using Java 8. 

You can download and install the latest version of Java from the official website [here](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-downloads.html). Once you have installed Java 11 or higher, you can set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to the installation directory of the new version of Java.

To set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable, follow these steps:

1. Open the Start menu and search for "Environment Variables".
2. Click on "Edit the system environment variables".
3. Click on the "Environment Variables" button.
4. Under "System Variables", click on "New".
5. Enter `JAVA_HOME` as the variable name.
6. Enter the installation directory of Java 11 or higher as the variable value (e.g. `C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-11.0.11`).
7. Click "OK" to save the changes.

After setting the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable, try running the `bin\besu --help` command again and see if the issue is resolved.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the issue is with the version of Java you are using. Hyperledger Besu requires Java 11 or later to run, and you currently have Java 8 installed.

You can download and install the latest version of Java from the official website [here](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-downloads.html).

Once you have installed Java 11 or later, you can try running the `bin\besu` command again and it should work without any issues.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the issue is with the version of Java that you have installed. Hyperledger Besu requires Java 11 or higher to run, and you currently have Java 8 installed.

You can download and install Java 11 or higher from the official Java website: https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-downloads.html

Once you have installed Java 11 or higher, you can set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to point to the installation directory of Java 11 or higher. You can do this by following these steps:

1. Open the Start menu and search for "Environment Variables".
2. Click on "Edit the system environment variables".
3. Click on the "Environment Variables" button.
4. Under "System Variables", click on "New".
5. Enter "JAVA_HOME" as the variable name.
6. Enter the path to the installation directory of Java 11 or higher as the variable value (e.g. "C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-11.0.11").
7. Click "OK" to save the changes.

After setting the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable, try running the `bin\besu --help` command again and see if it works.

--------
