
# Post \#53292263 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53292263/)

## Send PathVariable @PostMapping in postman

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 61280 (138/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-349

Created at 2018-11-14 02:19:02

Tags: `java` `spring` `spring-mvc`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want send path variable in post mapping, in postman software.I select post mapping body and then how to do? I checked with [@RequestParam vs @PathVariable](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13715811/requestparam-vs-pathvariable) example,all answers for get method, But I need answer for post method.

```
@RestController
@RequestMapping("api/v1/customers") 
public class CustomerController {

@PostMapping("/{code}")
    public String postRequest(@PathVariable String code,@RequestBody CustomerDTO dto){
         System.out.println(dto);
         System.out.println(code);
         return "Something";
    }
}
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To send a path variable in a POST mapping using Postman, you can follow these steps:

1. Open Postman and create a new request.
2. Set the request method to POST.
3. Enter the URL of the API endpoint, including the path variable in curly braces. For example: `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/customers/{code}`
4. Click on the "Body" tab and select "raw".
5. Select the data format you want to use (JSON, XML, etc.).
6. Enter the request body in the format you selected.
7. Click on the "Send" button to send the request.

In your code, the `@PathVariable` annotation is used to extract the value of the path variable from the URL and map it to the `code` parameter of the `postRequest` method. The `@RequestBody` annotation is used to map the request body to the `dto` parameter of the method.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To send a path variable in a POST mapping using Postman, you can follow these steps:

1. Open Postman and create a new request.
2. Set the request method to POST.
3. Enter the URL of the endpoint, including the path variable. For example, `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/customers/123`.
4. Click on the "Body" tab.
5. Select the "raw" option and set the format to "JSON".
6. Enter the request body in JSON format. For example:

```
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "email": "johndoe@example.com"
}
```

7. Click on the "Send" button to send the request.

In your example code, the `@PathVariable` annotation is used to capture the `code` variable from the URL path. The `@RequestBody` annotation is used to map the request body to the `CustomerDTO` object. When you send a POST request with a path variable and a request body, the `postRequest` method will be called with the `code` variable and the `CustomerDTO` object as parameters.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To send a path variable in a POST request using Postman, you can follow these steps:

1. Open Postman and create a new request.
2. Select the HTTP method as POST.
3. Enter the URL with the path variable in the format `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/customers/{code}`. Replace `{code}` with the actual value of the path variable.
4. Go to the Body tab and select the raw option.
5. Select the format of the request body, such as JSON or XML.
6. Enter the request body in the format specified by the selected format.
7. Click on the Send button to send the request.

In the above example, you can send a POST request to `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/customers/123` with the request body in JSON format. The value of the path variable `code` will be `123`.

--------
