
# Post \#72683786 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72683786/)

## Error while importing Springboot 2.7 projects in intellij Idea with maven 3.8.5

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 16771 (336/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-345

Created at 2022-06-20 07:49:46

Tags: `java` `spring` `spring-boot` `maven` `intellij-idea`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

when Using start.spring.io
projects generated with springboot 2.7 comes with MavenProject 3.8.5 which when imported in intellij causes an error that is quite difficult to debug or not self speaking by itself.
The error
```
java.lang.RuntimeException: org.codehaus.plexus.component.repository.exception.ComponentLookupException: com.google.inject.ProvisionException: Unable to provision, see the following errors:

1) Error injecting constructor, java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: org.apache.maven.model.validation.DefaultModelValidator: method 'void <init>()' not found
  at org.jetbrains.idea.maven.server.embedder.CustomModelValidator.<init>(Unknown Source)
  while locating org.jetbrains.idea.maven.server.embedder.CustomModelValidator
  at ClassRealm[maven.ext, parent: ClassRealm[plexus.core, parent: null]] (via modules: org.eclipse.sisu.wire.WireModule -> org.eclipse.sisu.plexus.PlexusBindingModule)
  while locating org.apache.maven.model.validation.ModelValidator annotated with @com.google.inject.name.Named(value="ide")

1 error
      role: org.apache.maven.model.validation.ModelValidator
  roleHint: ide
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is due to a compatibility issue between the version of Maven bundled with Spring Boot 2.7 and the version of Maven supported by your current version of IntelliJ IDEA.

The error message indicates that IntelliJ is trying to use a method in the `org.apache.maven.model.validation.DefaultModelValidator` class that doesn't exist in the version of Maven bundled with your Spring Boot project. This is likely because your version of IntelliJ is expecting a different version of Maven.

Here are a few potential solutions:

1. **Update IntelliJ IDEA:** JetBrains regularly updates IntelliJ IDEA to support the latest versions of Maven. If you're not using the latest version of IntelliJ, updating might resolve the issue.

2. **Downgrade Spring Boot:** If you can't update IntelliJ or if updating doesn't resolve the issue, you might need to use a version of Spring Boot that bundles a version of Maven compatible with your version of IntelliJ. You can select the version of Spring Boot when generating a project on start.spring.io.

3. **Override the Maven version:** Another option is to override the version of Maven used by your project. You can do this by modifying the `pom.xml` file in your project. However, this might cause other issues if Spring Boot 2.7 relies on features only available in Maven 3.8.5.

Remember to always keep your tools up to date to avoid such issues. If none of these solutions work, you might need to reach out to JetBrains support for help.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're encountering is related to the version of Maven bundled with IntelliJ IDEA. It seems that the version of Maven bundled with IntelliJ IDEA is not compatible with the version of Spring Boot you're using.

Here are some steps you can take to resolve this issue:

1. **Update IntelliJ IDEA**: Make sure you're using the latest version of IntelliJ IDEA. JetBrains, the company that develops IntelliJ IDEA, regularly releases updates that include bug fixes and compatibility improvements.

2. **Use an External Maven**: Instead of using the bundled Maven, you can configure IntelliJ IDEA to use an external Maven installation. You can download the latest version of Maven from the official website. After installing Maven, you can configure IntelliJ IDEA to use it by going to `File -> Settings -> Build, Execution, Deployment -> Build Tools -> Maven`. In the `Maven home directory` field, enter the path to your Maven installation.

3. **Re-import the Project**: After changing the Maven settings, you should re-import your project. You can do this by right-clicking on the project in the Project tool window and selecting `Maven -> Reimport`.

4. **Check Your Project's pom.xml**: Make sure your project's `pom.xml` file is correctly configured. The `pom.xml` file should include the correct version of Spring Boot and any other dependencies your project needs.

5. **Clean and Rebuild the Project**: Sometimes, cleaning and rebuilding the project can resolve issues. You can clean the project by running `mvn clean` in the Terminal tool window. After cleaning the project, you can rebuild it by running `mvn install`.

If none of these steps resolve the issue, it might be a bug in IntelliJ IDEA or in the Spring Boot starter. In that case, you should report the issue to JetBrains or to the Spring Boot team.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're encountering is due to a compatibility issue between the version of Maven bundled with IntelliJ IDEA and the version of Maven used in your Spring Boot project. 

The error message indicates that IntelliJ IDEA's Maven integration is trying to use a class (`org.apache.maven.model.validation.DefaultModelValidator`) that doesn't exist in the version of Maven bundled with IntelliJ IDEA.

Here are a few possible solutions:

1. **Update IntelliJ IDEA**: JetBrains regularly releases updates to IntelliJ IDEA that include fixes for known issues. Check if there's an update available for your version of IntelliJ IDEA.

2. **Change the bundled Maven version in IntelliJ IDEA**: You can configure IntelliJ IDEA to use a different version of Maven. Go to `File -> Settings -> Build, Execution, Deployment -> Build Tools -> Maven`. In the `Maven home directory` field, enter the path to the Maven installation you want to use.

3. **Downgrade the Maven version in your Spring Boot project**: If you can't change the version of Maven used by IntelliJ IDEA, you could try downgrading the version of Maven used in your Spring Boot project. You can do this by changing the version specified in the `pom.xml` file.

Remember to re-import the project in IntelliJ IDEA after making these changes.

--------
