
# Post \#54137286 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54137286/)

## Error: Java: invalid target release: 11 - IntelliJ IDEA

**Vote**: 187 (22/702) **Views**: 369358 (13/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-376

Created at 2019-01-10 21:38:59

Tags: `java` `intellij-idea` `java-11`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to build an application which was built using java 8, now it's upgraded to java 11. I installed [Java 11](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) using [an oracle article](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/install/installation-jdk-microsoft-windows-platforms.html#GUID-A7E27B90-A28D-4237-9383-A58B416071CA) in my  and I use  as my IDE.

I changed my system environment variables and set the 

```
JAVA_HOME to C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-11.0.1
```


And added that to the `Path` variable.

```
C:\>java -version
java version "11.0.1" 2018-10-16 LTS
Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS)
Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS, mixed mode)
```


When I build my application in IntelliJ, this is what I get:

```
Information:java: Errors occurred while compiling module 'test-domain_main'
Information: javac 1.8.0_171 was used to compile java sources
Information:1/10/2019 4:21 PM - Compilation completed with 1 error and 0 warnings in 1s 199ms
Error:java: invalid target release: 11
```


This is what I've tried so far:


1. I changed .idea/compiler.xml target values from 8 to 11 but that didn't help. Also, verified the Target bytecode version in settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > Compiler > Java Compiler and all my modules are set to 11.
2. Went to file > Project Structure > SDKs *(currently I have 1.7 and 1.7 listed)* > Add new SDK > JDK > After that, I selected C:\Program Files\Java\jdk-11.0.1 But it errors out with "The selected directory is not a valid home for JDK"



I am not sure if I installed the wrong JDK 11, because in my `C:\Program Files\Java\`, I see separate JDK and JRE folders for `1.7` and `1.8` but only JDK folder for `11.0.1`

Or is it something else I need to change? 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like IntelliJ is still using the old JDK version to compile your application. You can try the following steps to make sure IntelliJ is using the correct JDK version:

1. Go to File > Project Structure > Project and make sure the Project SDK is set to JDK 11.
2. Go to File > Project Structure > Modules and make sure the Language level is set to 11.
3. Go to Run > Edit Configurations and make sure the JRE is set to JDK 11.
4. If none of the above steps work, you can try invalidating the cache and restarting IntelliJ. Go to File > Invalidate Caches / Restart and select Invalidate and Restart.

If you still encounter the same error, you can try checking the compiler settings in IntelliJ. Go to File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > Compiler > Java Compiler and make sure the Target bytecode version is set to 11. 

If none of these steps work, you can try reinstalling JDK 11 and making sure it is properly configured in your system environment variables.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like IntelliJ is still using the old version of Java (1.8) to compile your code. You need to configure IntelliJ to use the newly installed JDK 11.

Here's what you can try:

1. Go to File > Project Structure > Project and make sure that the Project SDK is set to JDK 11.
2. Go to File > Project Structure > Modules and make sure that the Language Level is set to 11.
3. Go to Run > Edit Configurations and make sure that the JRE is set to JDK 11.
4. If the above steps don't work, try invalidating the cache and restarting IntelliJ. Go to File > Invalidate Caches / Restart and select "Invalidate and Restart".

If you still encounter issues, you can try creating a new project in IntelliJ and selecting JDK 11 as the project SDK during the setup process. Then, copy your code over to the new project and see if it compiles successfully.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like IntelliJ is still using the old version of Java (1.8) to compile your application. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure that you have set the correct JDK version in IntelliJ. Go to File > Project Structure > SDKs and make sure that the JDK 11 is listed and selected as the default SDK.

2. Check the project settings in IntelliJ. Go to File > Project Structure > Project and make sure that the Project SDK is set to JDK 11.

3. Check the module settings in IntelliJ. Go to File > Project Structure > Modules and make sure that the Language Level is set to 11.

4. If none of the above steps work, try invalidating the cache and restarting IntelliJ. Go to File > Invalidate Caches / Restart and select "Invalidate and Restart".

5. If you still have issues, try creating a new project in IntelliJ and see if you can compile it using JDK 11. If it works, then there might be an issue with your current project settings.

6. Lastly, make sure that you have updated your build tools (e.g. Maven, Gradle) to use JDK 11. You can check the build tool documentation for instructions on how to do this.

--------
