
# Post \#49940719 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49940719/)

## How to log data to the Flutter console?

**Vote**: 169 (28/702) **Views**: 232300 (28/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-335

Created at 2018-04-20 11:33:08

Tags: `intellij-idea` `console` `dart` `flutter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `dart` `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am a beginner and using IntelliJ IDEA, and I wanted to log data to the console?
I tried `print()` and `printDebug()`, but none of my data were showing in the Flutter console.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In IntelliJ IDEA, you can use the `print()` function to log data to the console. However, if you are using Flutter, you should use the `debugPrint()` function instead of `print()`. The `debugPrint()` function is specifically designed for Flutter and will print your data to the Flutter console.

Here's an example of how to use `debugPrint()`:

```dart
debugPrint('Hello, world!');
```

This will print "Hello, world!" to the Flutter console.

You can also use string interpolation to print variables:

```dart
String name = 'John';
int age = 30;
debugPrint('My name is $name and I am $age years old.');
```

This will print "My name is John and I am 30 years old." to the Flutter console.

Make sure that you have the Flutter console open in IntelliJ IDEA. You can open it by clicking on the "Flutter" tab at the bottom of the screen and then selecting "Console".

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In IntelliJ IDEA, you can use the `print()` function to log data to the console. However, if you are using Flutter, you should use the `debugPrint()` function instead. This function is specifically designed for Flutter and will print your data to the Flutter console.

Here's an example of how to use `debugPrint()`:

```
debugPrint('Hello, world!');
```

This will print "Hello, world!" to the Flutter console.

You can also use string interpolation to print variables:

```
String name = 'John';
debugPrint('Hello, $name!');
```

This will print "Hello, John!" to the Flutter console.

Make sure that you have the Flutter console selected in IntelliJ IDEA. You can do this by clicking on the "Flutter" tab at the bottom of the screen. If you still don't see your data, try running your app in debug mode by clicking on the "Debug" button in the toolbar. This will allow you to see any errors or warnings that may be preventing your data from being printed to the console.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In IntelliJ IDEA, you can use the `print()` statement to log data to the console. However, if you are using Flutter, you should use the `debugPrint()` statement instead. This is because `debugPrint()` is specifically designed for Flutter and will print the data to the Flutter console.

Here's an example of how to use `debugPrint()`:

```dart
debugPrint("Hello, world!");
```

If you still can't see your data in the console, make sure that you have the "Flutter" tab selected in the console window. You can switch between the "Dart" and "Flutter" tabs using the dropdown menu in the top-right corner of the console window.

Also, make sure that you are running your app in debug mode. You can do this by clicking on the "Run" button in IntelliJ IDEA with the "Debug" configuration selected.

--------
