
# Post \#58894875 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58894875/)

## How to delete a database in pgadmin

**Vote**: 13 (343/702) **Views**: 25767 (257/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-373

Created at 2019-11-16 20:26:03

Tags: `java` `sql` `database`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When i try to create other database with the name "eCommerce" in pgadmin 4 this message appears 



I try to delete the others databases but is not working and appears



What should i do?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

It seems like you didn't provide the exact error message you're encountering. However, I can give you some general advice on how to handle such situations.

1. Check if the database is in use: If any user is connected to the database, you won't be able to delete it. Make sure to disconnect all users from the database you want to delete.

2. Check your permissions: Make sure that your user account has the necessary permissions to create and delete databases.

3. Use the DROP DATABASE command: If you're unable to delete the database through the pgAdmin interface, you can try using the DROP DATABASE command in the SQL query tool.

Here is an example of how to use this command:

```
DROP DATABASE "eCommerce";
```

Remember to replace "eCommerce" with the name of your database.

4. If you're trying to create a new database with the same name as an existing one, you'll need to delete the existing database first or choose a different name for your new database.

If none of these solutions work, please provide the exact error message you're encountering for more specific help.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you forgot to include the error messages you're encountering. Could you please provide the error messages you're seeing when you try to create the database and when you try to delete the other databases? This will help me understand the problem better and provide a more accurate solution.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems like you didn't provide the exact error messages you're encountering, which makes it difficult to provide a specific solution. However, here are some general steps you can take to troubleshoot issues when creating a database in pgAdmin 4:

1. **Check if the database already exists**: The error might be because a database with the same name already exists. In pgAdmin, you can see the list of databases in the Browser panel on the left. If a database named "eCommerce" already exists, you'll need to either delete it or create your new database with a different name.

2. **Check your permissions**: Make sure you have the necessary permissions to create a database. If you're not a superuser or don't have the CREATEDB privilege, you won't be able to create a new database.

3. **Check if there are active connections to the database**: If you're trying to delete a database but it's not working, it might be because there are active connections to the database. You can use the `pg_terminate_backend` function to terminate these connections.

4. **Check your syntax**: Make sure you're using the correct syntax to create a database. The basic syntax to create a database in PostgreSQL is `CREATE DATABASE dbname;`.

If none of these steps solve your problem, please provide the exact error messages you're getting so I can give a more specific solution.

--------
