
# Post \#63832966 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63832966/)

## HttpMessageNotWritableException: No converter for [...] with preset Content-Type 'null'] with OpenApi Spring generator

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 31745 (224/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-341

Created at 2020-09-10 15:28:21

Tags: `spring` `spring-boot` `openapi-generator`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am implementing the petstore API with openAPI in a (gradle) spring boot project. I generate a server with the openapi generator plugin and implement a simple request:
```
@Service
@RestController
public class PetApiController implements PetApi {

    @Override
    public ResponseEntity<Pet> getPetById(Long petId) {
        Pet p = new Pet();
        p.setId(0L);
        p.setName("fido");
        p.setPhotoUrls(new ArrayList<String>());
        p.setStatus(StatusEnum.AVAILABLE);
        p.setTags(new ArrayList<Tag>());
        Category c = new Category();
        c.setId(3L);
        c.setName("dummy category");
        p.setCategory(c);
        
        ResponseEntity<Pet> r = new ResponseEntity<Pet>(p, HttpStatus.OK);
        
        return r;
    }
}
```

The swagger-ui that I generate offers both xml and json queries for a request, but xml doesn't seem to work:
```
$ curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/pet/1" -H  "accept: application/xml"; echo ""

$ curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/pet/1" -H  "accept: application/json"; echo ""
{"id":0,"name":"fido","category":{"id":3,"name":"dummy category"},"photoUrls":[],"tags":[],"status":"available"}
```

I even get an error message:
```
2020-09-10 09:04:34.213  WARN 23958 --- [nio-8080-exec-1] .w.s.m.s.DefaultHandlerExceptionResolver : Resolved [org.springframework.http.converter.HttpMessageNotWritableException: No converter for [class com.petstore.server.model.Pet] with preset Content-Type 'null']
```

However I cannot catch this exception and print the whole context, it only happens after `return r`
There is already a question with my exact error message:
[Springboot HttpMessageNotWritableException: No converter for [...] with preset Content-Type 'null']](https://stackoverflow.com/q/60502811/3014199) But I still think my context is different since I generate my POJOs so I have no controll over them and I shouldn't have this problem in the first place since the plugin should generate everything fittingly.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is indicating that Spring Boot doesn't know how to convert your `Pet` object into XML. This is because, by default, Spring Boot only configures a converter for JSON.

To enable XML support, you need to add the following dependency to your `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
implementation 'com.fasterxml.jackson.dataformat:jackson-dataformat-xml'
```

This will add the Jackson XML data format library to your project, which includes a `HttpMessageConverter` that can convert objects to XML.

After you've added this dependency, Spring Boot should automatically configure a converter for XML, and your XML endpoint should start working.

If it still doesn't work, you can manually configure an XML converter by adding the following bean to one of your configuration classes:

```java
@Bean
public MappingJackson2XmlHttpMessageConverter mappingJackson2XmlHttpMessageConverter() {
    MappingJackson2XmlHttpMessageConverter xmlConverter = new MappingJackson2XmlHttpMessageConverter();
    xmlConverter.setObjectMapper(new XmlMapper());
    return xmlConverter;
}
```

This will create a `MappingJackson2XmlHttpMessageConverter` bean that Spring Boot can use to convert objects to XML. The `XmlMapper` is a Jackson class that knows how to convert objects to XML and vice versa.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing indicates that Spring Boot is unable to convert your `Pet` object into XML format. This is because by default, Spring Boot only configures a converter for JSON format.

To enable XML format, you need to add the following dependency to your `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
implementation 'com.fasterxml.jackson.dataformat:jackson-dataformat-xml'
```

This will add the Jackson XML data format library to your project, which includes the `MappingJackson2XmlHttpMessageConverter` that can convert your objects into XML format.

After adding this dependency, Spring Boot should automatically configure a converter for XML format, and your XML requests should start working.

If you still encounter issues, you may need to manually configure the XML converter. Here's an example of how to do this:

```java
@Configuration
public class WebConfig implements WebMvcConfigurer {

    @Override
    public void extendMessageConverters(List<HttpMessageConverter<?>> converters) {
        for (HttpMessageConverter<?> converter : converters) {
            if (converter instanceof MappingJackson2HttpMessageConverter) {
                MappingJackson2HttpMessageConverter jsonConverter = (MappingJackson2HttpMessageConverter) converter;
                jsonConverter.setSupportedMediaTypes(Arrays.asList(new MediaType("application", "json"), new MediaType("application", "xml")));
            }
        }
    }
}
```

This code checks all the configured message converters, and if it finds the JSON converter, it adds XML as a supported media type. This way, the same converter can be used for both JSON and XML requests.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing indicates that Spring Boot is unable to convert your `Pet` object into XML format. This is because, by default, Spring Boot only configures Jackson to convert objects to and from JSON format.

To enable XML format, you need to add the following dependency to your `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
implementation 'com.fasterxml.jackson.dataformat:jackson-dataformat-xml'
```

This will add Jackson's dataformat-xml module to your project, which provides the necessary functionality to convert objects to and from XML format.

After adding this dependency, Spring Boot should be able to automatically configure a `MappingJackson2XmlHttpMessageConverter` bean, which can convert objects to XML format.

If you still encounter issues after adding this dependency, you might need to manually configure the `HttpMessageConverter` bean. Here's an example of how to do this:

```java
@Configuration
public class WebConfig implements WebMvcConfigurer {

    @Override
    public void extendMessageConverters(List<HttpMessageConverter<?>> converters) {
        for (HttpMessageConverter<?> converter : converters) {
            if (converter instanceof MappingJackson2HttpMessageConverter) {
                MappingJackson2HttpMessageConverter jsonConverter = (MappingJackson2HttpMessageConverter) converter;
                jsonConverter.setSupportedMediaTypes(Arrays.asList(new MediaType("application", "json"), new MediaType("application", "xml")));
            }
        }
    }
}
```

This configuration class extends the `WebMvcConfigurer` interface and overrides the `extendMessageConverters` method. This method is called during startup and allows you to modify the list of `HttpMessageConverter` beans that Spring Boot has configured. In this case, we're adding `application/xml` as a supported media type for the `MappingJackson2HttpMessageConverter` bean.

--------
