
# Post \#69449905 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69449905/)

## How to enable Spring Boot Live Dev Tools on IntelliJ 2021.2 to rebuild classes after modifications and deploy changes to server?

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 7313 (479/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-368

Created at 2021-10-05 11:49:50

Tags: `spring` `spring-boot` `intellij-idea`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

This is a tutorial on how to enable Dev Tools project on IntelliJ 2021.2 and observe the changes in code without having to restart the Tomcat server.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Sure, I can help you with that. Here are the steps to enable Dev Tools project on IntelliJ 2021.2:

1. Open your project in IntelliJ 2021.2.
2. Click on the "File" menu and select "Settings".
3. In the Settings window, expand the "Build, Execution, Deployment" option and select "Compiler".
4. Check the "Build project automatically" option.
5. Click on the "Build Tools" option and select "Maven".
6. Check the "Delegate IDE build/run actions to Maven" option.
7. Click on the "Build, Execution, Deployment" option and select "Debugger".
8. Check the "Allow parallel run" option.
9. Click on the "Build, Execution, Deployment" option and select "Application Servers".
10. Select your Tomcat server and click on the "Configuration" tab.
11. Check the "Enable JRebel agent" option.
12. Click on the "OK" button to save the changes.

Now, you can observe the changes in your code without having to restart the Tomcat server. Whenever you make changes to your code, IntelliJ will automatically compile and deploy the changes to the Tomcat server.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Sure, I can help you with that. Here are the steps to enable Dev Tools project on IntelliJ 2021.2:

1. Open your project in IntelliJ 2021.2.
2. Click on the "File" menu and select "Settings".
3. In the Settings window, expand the "Build, Execution, Deployment" option and select "Compiler".
4. In the Compiler settings, check the "Build project automatically" option.
5. Click on the "Apply" button to save the changes.

Now, to observe the changes in code without having to restart the Tomcat server, follow these steps:

1. Open the "Run" menu and select "Edit Configurations".
2. In the Run/Debug Configurations window, select your Tomcat server configuration.
3. In the "Server" tab, check the "Enable JMX agent" option.
4. In the "Deployment" tab, check the "Deploy applications automatically" option.
5. Click on the "Apply" button to save the changes.

Now, whenever you make changes to your code, IntelliJ will automatically compile and deploy the changes to the Tomcat server. You can observe the changes in real-time without having to restart the server.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Sure, I can help you with that. Here are the steps to enable Dev Tools project on IntelliJ 2021.2:

1. Open your IntelliJ project and navigate to the "pom.xml" file.
2. Add the following dependency to the "pom.xml" file:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-devtools</artifactId>
    <optional>true</optional>
</dependency>
```

3. Save the "pom.xml" file and let IntelliJ update the project.
4. Navigate to the "application.properties" file and add the following line:

```properties
spring.devtools.restart.enabled=true
```

5. Save the "application.properties" file.
6. Run your project in IntelliJ.
7. Make a change to your code and save the file.
8. Observe that the changes are automatically detected and the server is restarted without having to manually restart the Tomcat server.

That's it! You have successfully enabled Dev Tools project on IntelliJ 2021.2 and can now observe changes in your code without having to restart the Tomcat server.

--------
