
# Post \#61124946 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61124946/)

## How to you use a specific version of Java in Azure Devops Agent without downloading?

**Vote**: 30 (193/702) **Views**: 24907 (264/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-364

Created at 2020-04-09 15:44:15

Tags: `java` `azure-devops`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to run Maven using the Maven wrapper rather than the Maven task.  However, it's failing because it is using an older version of Java.  The JavaInstaller task seems to require a remote source for the JDK, I would rather avoid doing that and use the one that works with Maven task, but I can't find it documented anywhere.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

If you want to use the same version of Java that is used by the Maven task, you can try setting the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to the path of the Java installation used by the Maven task. 

To find the path of the Java installation used by the Maven task, you can run the following command in your project directory:

```
mvn -version
```

This will display the version of Maven and the path of the Java installation used by Maven. You can then set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to this path.

On Windows, you can set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable by following these steps:

1. Open the Start menu and search for "Environment Variables".
2. Click on "Edit the system environment variables".
3. Click on the "Environment Variables" button.
4. Under "System Variables", click on "New".
5. Enter "JAVA_HOME" as the variable name and the path to the Java installation as the variable value.
6. Click "OK" to save the changes.

On Linux or macOS, you can set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable by adding the following line to your shell configuration file (e.g. `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`):

```
export JAVA_HOME=/path/to/java
```

Replace `/path/to/java` with the path to the Java installation used by Maven. 

Once you have set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable, try running the Maven wrapper again and it should use the correct version of Java.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

If you want to use the same version of Java that works with the Maven task, you can try setting the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to the path of the JDK that Maven is using. 

To find out which JDK Maven is using, you can run the following command in your terminal or command prompt:

```
mvn -version
```

This will display the version of Maven and the path to the JDK that it is using. You can then set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to that path.

For example, if the output of the `mvn -version` command is:

```
Apache Maven 3.6.3
Maven home: /usr/local/Cellar/maven/3.6.3/libexec
Java version: 1.8.0_242, vendor: AdoptOpenJDK, runtime: /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/adoptopenjdk-8.jdk/Contents/Home
```

You can set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/adoptopenjdk-8.jdk/Contents/Home`.

Once you have set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable, you can try running the Maven wrapper again and it should use the same version of Java that Maven is using.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

If you want to use the same version of Java that is used by the Maven task, you can try to locate the path to the Java executable that is used by the Maven task. 

To do this, you can run the following command in your terminal or command prompt:

```
mvn -version
```

This will display the version of Maven and the path to the Java executable that is used by Maven. 

Once you have the path to the Java executable, you can use it to run Maven using the Maven wrapper. 

For example, if the path to the Java executable is `/usr/bin/java`, you can run the Maven wrapper using the following command:

```
./mvnw -Dmaven.compiler.executable=/usr/bin/java clean install
```

This will use the Java executable located at `/usr/bin/java` to run Maven.

--------
