
# Post \#65001259 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65001259/)

## Correct way to communicate the result of a background thread to the Ui Thread in Android

**Vote**: 22 (248/702) **Views**: 12435 (390/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-358

Created at 2020-11-25 08:48:44

Tags: `java` `android` `multithreading` `android-asynctask` `threadpoolexecutor`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

This is one of the most confusing topics for me. .
Imagine I want to update some `TextView` with some information I just downloaded.There is 3 things I use when I need to perform background tasks:

## AsyncTask


Very easy to use, this one has the `onPostExecute()` method that will return the result directly to the UiThread so I can use a callback interface or do whatever I want. I liked this class but it's 

## ThreadPoolExecutor


This is what I actually use when need to perform background tasks and here comes my problem, the moment when I have to give the result to the UiThread. I have informed myself about `Looper` and `Handler` classes and about the `mainLooper`.
So, when I need to return some results I use the method `runOnUiThread()` that, as I have readed, just get the `Looper` of the Ui thread and post my `Runnable` to the queue.
Well this is working and I can communicate with the main thread but, I find it really ugly, and I am sure there is a more elegant way of doing it than populate all my code of "`runOnUiThread()`" methods. Also, if the background task need too much time, maybe the user already change of `Activity` or `Fragment` when the code inside `runOnUiThread()` runs what will cause `Exceptions` (I know using `LiveData` and `MVVM` pattern would solve this last problem but I am working in a legacy project and I can't refactor all the code so I am working with the clasical Activity mvc pattern)
 I really searched a lot but didn't find anything...

## Coroutines


I am actually working in a legacy project and I must use Java so can't use Kotlin `coroutines`, but I find them easy to use and so powerfull.
Any help would be appreciated!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It's great that you have explored different options for performing background tasks in Android. As you have mentioned, `AsyncTask` is a simple and easy-to-use option, but it has been deprecated since Android 11. 

`ThreadPoolExecutor` is a good alternative, but as you have mentioned, it requires you to manually handle communication with the UI thread using `runOnUiThread()`. 

Since you are working with a legacy project and cannot use Kotlin coroutines, you can consider using Java coroutines. Java coroutines are not officially supported by Android, but there are some third-party libraries that you can use, such as Quasar or Fibers. 

Java coroutines allow you to write asynchronous code in a synchronous style, making it easier to read and maintain. They also handle communication with the UI thread automatically, so you don't have to worry about using `runOnUiThread()`. 

Another option you can consider is using RxJava. RxJava is a reactive programming library that allows you to write asynchronous and event-based code in a more concise and readable way. It also provides operators for handling threading and communication with the UI thread. 

Overall, there are many options available for performing background tasks in Android, and it's important to choose the one that best fits your project's needs and constraints.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It's great that you are exploring different options for performing background tasks in your Android project. Here are some suggestions that might help you:

1. AsyncTask: As you mentioned, this class is easy to use and has a built-in method to return the result directly to the UI thread. However, it is also deprecated in Android 11 and may not be the best option for long-running tasks.

2. ThreadPoolExecutor: This class provides a way to execute tasks in a background thread, but as you mentioned, it requires you to manually handle the communication with the UI thread. One way to make this more elegant is to create a custom class that extends `Handler` and handles the communication with the UI thread. You can then use this custom class to post `Runnable` objects from your background thread.

3. Coroutines: While you mentioned that you cannot use Kotlin coroutines in your legacy project, it's worth noting that coroutines provide a very elegant way to perform background tasks in Android. If you are interested in exploring this further, you could consider using a library like kotlinx.coroutines-java8, which provides a Java 8-compatible version of Kotlin coroutines.

4. LiveData: As you mentioned, using LiveData and the MVVM pattern can help solve some of the issues with communicating between background threads and the UI thread. While it may not be feasible to refactor your entire project to use this pattern, you could consider using LiveData in specific parts of your code where it makes sense.

Overall, there is no one-size-fits-all solution for performing background tasks in Android, and it's important to choose the approach that works best for your specific use case.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It's great that you are exploring different options for performing background tasks in your Android app. As you have mentioned, `AsyncTask` is a simple and easy-to-use option, but it has been deprecated since Android 11. 

`ThreadPoolExecutor` is a more flexible option, but as you have mentioned, it can be cumbersome to handle communication with the UI thread using `runOnUiThread()`.

One alternative you can consider is using `HandlerThread`. This is a thread that has a looper associated with it, which allows you to post messages to it and handle them on the UI thread. Here's an example of how you can use it:

```
// Create a HandlerThread
HandlerThread handlerThread = new HandlerThread("MyHandlerThread");
handlerThread.start();

// Create a handler associated with the HandlerThread's looper
Handler handler = new Handler(handlerThread.getLooper());

// Post a message to the handler
handler.post(new Runnable() {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        // Perform your background task here
        // ...

        // Post a message to the UI thread
        runOnUiThread(new Runnable() {
            @Override
            public void run() {
                // Update your UI here
                // ...
            }
        });
    }
});
```

Using `HandlerThread` can help you avoid cluttering your code with `runOnUiThread()` calls, and it also ensures that your messages are handled on the correct thread even if the user navigates away from the current activity or fragment.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
