
# Post \#69696321 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69696321/)

## IntelliJ - Invalid source release: 17

**Vote**: 122 (41/702) **Views**: 99975 (87/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-346

Created at 2021-10-24 11:32:37

Tags: `java` `gradle` `intellij-idea` `java-17`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've created a new Java project in IntelliJ with Gradle that uses Java 17. When running my app it has the error `Cause: error: invalid source release: 17`.

I've installed `openjdk-17` through `IntelliJ` and set it as my `Project SDK`.
The `Project language level` has been set to `17 - Sealed types, always-strict floating-point semantics`.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/h6OBn.png)
In `Modules -> Sources` I've set the `Language level` to `Project default (17 - Sealed types, always strict floating-point semantics)`.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/WxHWG.png)
In `Modules -> Dependencies` I've set the `Module SDK` to `Project SDK openjdk-17`.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/0DMAk.png)
In `Settings -> Build, Execution, Deployment -> Compiler -> Java Compiler` I've set the `Project bytecode version` to `17`.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/jZxak.png)

```
plugins {
    id 'org.springframework.boot' version '2.5.6'
    id 'io.spring.dependency-management' version '1.0.11.RELEASE'
    id 'java'
}

group = 'com.app'
version = '0.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
sourceCompatibility = '17'

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web'
    implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-websocket'
    testImplementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-test'
    implementation 'com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-core:2.13.0'
    implementation 'com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-databind:2.13.0'
}

test {
    useJUnitPlatform()
}
```

I've looked at all of the answers [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46280859/intellij-idea-error-java-invalid-source-release-1-9) but I can't seem to fix this. I must be missing something but I can't find it. I've not had any problems using Java 8 or 11.
How do I resolve this?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like you have set up everything correctly. However, there might be a possibility that the Gradle settings are overriding your project settings. 

To fix this issue, you can add the following lines to your `build.gradle` file:

```
compileJava {
    options.release = 17
}
```

This will ensure that the Java compiler uses Java 17 to compile your code. 

After adding these lines, you can try running your app again. If the issue persists, you can try cleaning and rebuilding your project. 

If none of these solutions work, you can try creating a new project from scratch and following the same steps to set up Java 17. Sometimes, there might be issues with the project configuration that can be resolved by starting fresh.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like you have set up everything correctly. However, there might be a possibility that the Gradle settings are overriding your project settings. 

To fix this issue, you can add the following lines to your `build.gradle` file:

```
compileJava {
    options.release = 17
}
```

This will ensure that Gradle uses Java 17 to compile your code.

If this doesn't work, you can try deleting the `.gradle` folder in your project directory and re-importing the project in IntelliJ. This will reset all the Gradle settings and might fix the issue.

I hope this helps you resolve the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like you have set up everything correctly. However, there might be a possibility that the Gradle build is not picking up the correct JDK version. 

You can try adding the following lines to your `build.gradle` file:

```
compileJava {
    options.release = 17
}
```

This will explicitly set the Java version to 17 for the compilation process.

If that doesn't work, you can try running the following command in your terminal:

```
./gradlew clean build --refresh-dependencies
```

This will clean your Gradle build and refresh the dependencies, which might help in picking up the correct JDK version.

If none of the above solutions work, you can try checking your system's environment variables to ensure that the correct JDK version is being used. You can also try reinstalling the JDK and restarting IntelliJ to see if that resolves the issue.

--------
