
# Post \#74701738 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74701738/)

## Spring Boot 3 springdoc-openapi-ui doesn't work

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 11531 (400/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-380

Created at 2022-12-06 11:29:11

Tags: `java` `spring` `spring-boot` `swagger-ui`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to add swagger-ui (OpenAPI 3.0) to a Spring Boot v3 application.
I've added the openapi-ui maven dependency, and it should work as per the documentation.
```
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springdoc</groupId>
    <artifactId>springdoc-openapi-ui</artifactId>
    <version>1.6.11</version>
</dependency>
```

But apparently, it still doesn't work and localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html returns an 404 error.
What am I missing?
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/hAeIX.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're facing might be due to the change in the default URL for Swagger UI when using the Springdoc OpenAPI UI library. 

In the older Swagger 2.x library, the default URL was `/swagger-ui.html`. However, in the Springdoc OpenAPI UI library, the default URL is `/swagger-ui/index.html`.

So, try accessing your Swagger UI at `localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html` or `localhost:8080/swagger-ui/`.

If you want to customize the Swagger UI path, you can do so by adding the following property to your `application.properties` or `application.yml` file:

```properties
springdoc.swagger-ui.path=/swagger-ui.html
```

This will change the Swagger UI path back to `/swagger-ui.html`.

Also, make sure that your application is running and that the server port is indeed 8080. If your server is running on a different port, you'll need to adjust the URL accordingly.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're facing might be due to the change in the default URL for Swagger UI. Starting from version 1.3.9 of springdoc-openapi-ui, the Swagger UI is accessible through the path /swagger-ui/index.html instead of /swagger-ui.html.

So, try accessing Swagger UI at `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html` or `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/`.

If you still face issues, make sure you have the following:

1. Check if you have the correct Spring Boot version. The springdoc-openapi-ui library works with Spring Boot 2.0.0.RELEASE and later.

2. Make sure you have the springdoc-openapi-ui dependency in your pom.xml file.

3. If you have any custom security configurations, make sure they don't block the Swagger UI URL.

4. If you're using SpringFox, ensure it's disabled as it can conflict with SpringDoc.

5. If you're using Spring MVC (not WebFlux), you also need to add the springdoc-openapi-webmvc-core dependency.

6. If you're using servlet container, make sure it's Servlet 3.0+ compatible.

7. If you're using Spring Boot with Jersey, you need to add the springdoc-openapi-jersey2 dependency.

8. If none of the above helps, try to create a minimal, reproducible example of your problem. This will help you isolate the issue and might even lead you to the solution.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue you're facing might be due to the change in the default URL for Swagger UI. In the newer versions of Springdoc, the Swagger UI is no longer available at `/swagger-ui.html`. Instead, it's available at `/swagger-ui/index.html`.

So, try accessing the Swagger UI at `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html` or `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/`.

If you still face issues, make sure that you have the following:

1. The Springdoc OpenAPI UI dependency in your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springdoc</groupId>
    <artifactId>springdoc-openapi-ui</artifactId>
    <version>1.6.11</version>
</dependency>
```

2. The Spring Boot Starter Web dependency:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

3. If you're using Spring Security, make sure that you've allowed the Swagger UI URL in your security configuration:

```java
http
    .authorizeRequests()
    .antMatchers("/swagger-ui/**").permitAll()
    .anyRequest().authenticated();
```

4. If you're using Spring MVC (`spring-boot-starter-web`), make sure you don't have `spring-boot-starter-webflux` in your dependencies. These two starters are not compatible and having both of them might cause issues with the Swagger UI.

5. If you're using Springfox, make sure to remove it as it's not compatible with Springdoc.

--------
