
# Post \#65156377 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65156377/)

## Some conflicts were found in the installation area: jbr/bin/java is modified

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 8909 (432/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-347

Created at 2020-12-05 11:26:30

Tags: `intellij-idea`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

On Ubuntu, can't update to IntelliJ IDEA 2020.3 because of this conflict. What's going on? How do I resolve it?
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/0874E.jpg)
Image transcript:
> Some conflicts were found in the installation area.Some of the conflicts below do not have a solution, so the patch cannot be applied.
Please download this version from developer Web site and reinstall it from scratch.
Press 'Cancel' to exit.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The conflict message indicates that there are some files or directories in the installation area that conflict with the new version of IntelliJ IDEA you are trying to install. This can happen if you have made changes to the installation area manually or if there are leftover files from a previous installation.

To resolve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Uninstall the current version of IntelliJ IDEA completely. You can do this by running the uninstall script in the installation directory or by using the package manager.

2. Remove any leftover files or directories related to IntelliJ IDEA. You can do this by searching for files or directories with the name "IntelliJ" or "idea" in the installation directory and removing them.

3. Download the latest version of IntelliJ IDEA from the developer's website and install it from scratch.

If the conflict persists, you may need to seek further assistance from the IntelliJ IDEA support team or the Ubuntu community.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The conflict shown in the image is related to a file that already exists in the installation area and cannot be overwritten by the patch. The best solution is to follow the instructions given in the message and download the latest version of IntelliJ IDEA from the developer's website and reinstall it from scratch. 

Before doing so, you can try to uninstall the current version of IntelliJ IDEA and then install the new version. To uninstall IntelliJ IDEA, you can use the following command in the terminal:

```
sudo snap remove intellij-idea-community
```

After uninstalling, download the latest version of IntelliJ IDEA from the developer's website and follow the installation instructions. This should resolve the conflict and allow you to update to the latest version of IntelliJ IDEA.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The conflict message indicates that there are some files in the installation area that are conflicting with the update. The recommended solution is to download the latest version of IntelliJ IDEA from the developer's website and reinstall it from scratch. This will ensure that any conflicting files are replaced with the latest version.

To do this, follow these steps:

1. Go to the IntelliJ IDEA website and download the latest version of the software.
2. Uninstall the current version of IntelliJ IDEA from your system.
3. Install the new version of IntelliJ IDEA that you downloaded from the website.

After completing these steps, you should be able to use the latest version of IntelliJ IDEA without any conflicts.

--------
