
# Post \#58411279 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58411279/)

## Java with maven wouldn't build: Cannot run program "cmd" "Malformed argument has embedded quote"

**Vote**: 40 (158/702) **Views**: 71018 (122/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-348

Created at 2019-10-16 10:35:12

Tags: `java` `windows` `maven` `netbeans-11`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've a fresh install of netbean 11.1. 
Now I'm trying to build a project but I get the following error output: 

> Cannot run program "cmd" (in directory "C:\projects\open"): Malformed
  argument has embedded quote: "C:\Program
  Files\NetBeans-11.1\netbeans\java\maven\bin\mvn.cmd"

```
cd C:\projects\open; "JAVA_HOME=C:\\Program Files\\Java\\jdk-11.0.5" cmd /c "\"\"C:\\Program Files\\NetBeans-11.1\\netbeans\\java\\maven\\bin\\mvn.cmd\" -DskipTests=true -Dmaven.ext.class.path=\"C:\\Program Files\\NetBeans-11.1\\netbeans\\java\\maven-nblib\\netbeans-eventspy.jar\" -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 clean install\"" Cannot run program "cmd" (in directory "C:\projects\open"): Malformed argument has embedded quote: "C:\Program Files\NetBeans-11.1\netbeans\java\maven\bin\mvn.cmd" -DskipTests=true -Dmaven.ext.class.path="C:\Program Files\NetBeans-11.1\netbeans\java\maven-nblib\netbeans-eventspy.jar" -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 clean install
```


I've build this project with netbeans 11.1 before but have a new pc.
and a fresh install, tho I'm sure there was no problem last time I tried to install everything.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is related to a known issue with NetBeans and the Windows command line interpreter. The problem is that the command line interpreter in Windows does not correctly handle paths that contain spaces, which is the case with your `JAVA_HOME` and `mvn.cmd` paths.

Here are a few possible solutions:

1. **Move your installation to a path without spaces.** This is the most straightforward solution. You can reinstall your JDK, NetBeans, and Maven to a directory without spaces in its path, such as `C:\Java\jdk-11.0.5`, `C:\NetBeans-11.1`, and `C:\Maven`.

2. **Use short names.** Windows generates a short name for every file and directory. You can use the `dir /x` command in the command prompt to find out the short name. For example, the short name for `Program Files` is usually `PROGRA~1` or `PROGRA~2`. You can then use these short names in your paths.

3. **Upgrade your NetBeans.** This issue has been fixed in later versions of NetBeans. If you upgrade to a newer version, you should no longer encounter this problem.

4. **Modify the `nbactions.xml` file.** This is a more technical solution and involves modifying the `nbactions.xml` file in your project directory. You would need to replace all instances of `cmd` with `cmd.exe` and add `/s /c` after `cmd.exe`. This tells the command line interpreter to carry out the command that follows and then terminate. 

Remember to backup your files before making any changes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

This error is due to a bug in the JDK (Java Development Kit) version 1.8.0_131 and later versions on Windows. The bug is related to the handling of quotes in the command line arguments. 

To resolve this issue, you can try the following solutions:

1. **Downgrade your JDK version**: You can try downgrading your JDK to a version before 1.8.0_131. This is not the best solution as you might need the latest JDK for other purposes.

2. **Upgrade NetBeans**: Upgrade your NetBeans to the latest version. The NetBeans team has provided a fix for this bug in the later versions.

3. **Modify the `nbactions.xml` file**: You can modify the `nbactions.xml` file in your project folder. Replace all the `\"` with `\\\"`. This solution might not work for all cases.

4. **Use a different IDE**: If none of the above solutions work, you can try using a different IDE like IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse. These IDEs do not have this bug.

Remember to backup your project before trying these solutions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

This error is related to the way Windows handles command line arguments with embedded quotes. It's a known issue with NetBeans and Maven on Windows.

Here are a few possible solutions:

1. **Downgrade to NetBeans 8.2**: This version doesn't have the issue with embedded quotes.

2. **Use a different command line interpreter**: Instead of `cmd`, you could use PowerShell, Git Bash, or Cygwin. You can change the command line interpreter in the NetBeans settings.

3. **Move your installation to a path without spaces**: The issue is caused by the space in the path to `mvn.cmd`. If you move your NetBeans and Maven installations to a path without spaces, the issue should be resolved.

4. **Upgrade to a newer version of NetBeans**: This issue has been fixed in newer versions of NetBeans. If you upgrade to the latest version, the issue should be resolved.

5. **Edit the NetBeans configuration file**: You can edit the `netbeans.conf` file to change the way NetBeans handles command line arguments. You can find more information on how to do this in the NetBeans documentation.

Remember to always backup your work before making any major changes to your system or software.

--------
