
# Post \#57105154 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57105154/)

## Shortcut to extract Flutter widget from UI layout

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 35936 (206/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-337

Created at 2019-07-19 03:30:08

Tags: `android-studio` `intellij-idea` `flutter` `widget`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `dart` `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

If I have a complex layout that I want to simplify, what is the shortcut in Android Studio (or IntelliJ) to extract the widget out into a method? 

Example: 

I want to extract the three main widgets in the Stack.

```
class BodyWidget extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Stack(
      children: <Widget>[
        Container(
          decoration: BoxDecoration(
            image: DecorationImage(
              image: AssetImage('assets/image.jpg'),
              fit: BoxFit.cover,
            ),
          ),
        ),
        Align(
          alignment: Alignment(-0.7, -0.7),
          child: Container(
            height: 300,
            child: RichText(
              text: TextSpan(
                text: 'My text',
                style: TextStyle(
                  color: Colors.white70,
                  fontSize: 30,
                ),
              ),
            ),
          ),
        ),
        Align(
          alignment: Alignment.bottomCenter,
          child: Text(
            'Some other text',
            style: TextStyle(
              color: Colors.white70,
              fontSize: 20.0,
              fontWeight: FontWeight.w900,
              letterSpacing: 5.0,
            ),
          ),
        ),
      ],
    );
  }
}
```


I could do it by hand but I'm looking for a shortcut.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Android Studio (or IntelliJ), you can use the following shortcut to extract a widget into a method:

- For Windows/Linux: `Ctrl` + `Alt` + `M`
- For MacOS: `Cmd` + `Option` + `M`

Here's how to do it:

1. Select the widget you want to extract. For example, if you want to extract the first `Container` widget, you would select everything from `Container(` to its closing parenthesis `),`.

2. Press the shortcut (`Ctrl` + `Alt` + `M` or `Cmd` + `Option` + `M`). A dialog will appear.

3. In the dialog, enter the name of the new method and press `Enter`.

The selected widget will be replaced with a call to the new method, and the method will be created with the extracted widget.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Android Studio (or IntelliJ), you can use the "Extract Method" refactoring shortcut to simplify a complex layout by extracting a widget into a method. Here's how to do it:

1. Select the widget you want to extract. For example, if you want to extract the `Container` widget, you would select all the lines of code from `Container(` to its closing parenthesis `),`.

2. Once you've selected the widget, press `Ctrl + Alt + M` on Windows/Linux or `Cmd + Option + M` on Mac. This is the shortcut for the "Extract Method" refactoring.

3. A dialog box will appear asking you to enter a name for the new method. Enter a descriptive name and press `Enter`.

4. The selected widget will be replaced with a call to the new method, and the method itself will be added to your class.

This is a great way to simplify complex layouts and make your code more readable.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Android Studio or IntelliJ, you can use the Refactor feature to extract a widget into a method. Here are the steps:

1. Select the widget you want to extract. In your case, select the widget starting from `Container(` to the corresponding closing parenthesis `),`.

2. Press `Ctrl + Alt + M` on Windows/Linux or `Cmd + Option + M` on Mac. This is the shortcut for the "Extract Method" refactoring.

3. A dialog will appear asking you to name the new method. Enter the name and press `Enter`.

This will create a new method with the selected widget and replace the original widget with a call to the new method. This can help simplify complex layouts by breaking them down into smaller, more manageable methods.

--------
