
# Post \#74701738 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74701738/)

## Spring Boot 3 springdoc-openapi-ui doesn't work

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 11531 (400/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-380

Created at 2022-12-06 11:29:11

Tags: `java` `spring` `spring-boot` `swagger-ui`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to add swagger-ui (OpenAPI 3.0) to a Spring Boot v3 application.
I've added the openapi-ui maven dependency, and it should work as per the documentation.
```
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springdoc</groupId>
    <artifactId>springdoc-openapi-ui</artifactId>
    <version>1.6.11</version>
</dependency>
```

But apparently, it still doesn't work and localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html returns an 404 error.
What am I missing?
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/hAeIX.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

There are a few things you can check to troubleshoot this issue:

1. Make sure that the Spring Boot application is running and accessible at localhost:8080. You can try accessing other endpoints to confirm this.

2. Check if the swagger-ui.html file is present in the correct location. By default, the file should be located at /src/main/resources/META-INF/resources/swagger-ui.html. If the file is not present, you can try rebuilding the project or adding it manually.

3. Check if the OpenAPI documentation is accessible at /v3/api-docs. You can try accessing this endpoint directly to confirm if the documentation is available. If it's not available, you may need to check your OpenAPI configuration.

4. Check if there are any conflicting dependencies or configurations that may be causing issues. You can try removing any other OpenAPI or Swagger dependencies and configurations to see if that resolves the issue.

5. Try accessing the Swagger UI at localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html instead of localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html. This may work if there are any issues with the default URL.

Hopefully, one of these steps will help you resolve the issue and get Swagger UI working in your Spring Boot application.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

There are a few things you can check to troubleshoot this issue:

1. Make sure that the `@EnableSwagger2` annotation is present in your Spring Boot application class. This annotation enables Swagger support in your application.

2. Check that the `@ComponentScan` annotation is present in your Spring Boot application class. This annotation scans the package and its sub-packages for components to be registered as Spring beans.

3. Verify that the `springdoc.swagger-ui.path` property is set correctly in your application.properties or application.yml file. This property specifies the path where the Swagger UI should be available. By default, it is set to `/swagger-ui.html`.

4. Check that the `@RestController` annotation is present in your controller class. This annotation marks the class as a Spring MVC controller and enables it to handle HTTP requests.

5. Verify that the `@ApiOperation` annotation is present in your controller method. This annotation provides metadata about the operation, such as its summary, description, and response type.

6. Check that the `@Api` annotation is present in your controller class. This annotation provides metadata about the API, such as its title, version, and description.

If none of these steps resolve the issue, you can try enabling debug logging in your application to see if there are any errors or warnings related to Swagger. You can do this by adding the following line to your application.properties or application.yml file:

```
logging.level.org.springdoc=DEBUG
```

This will enable debug logging for the springdoc package, which includes the Swagger components.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

There are a few things you can check to troubleshoot this issue:

1. Make sure that the Spring Boot application is running and accessible at localhost:8080. You can test this by accessing localhost:8080 in your web browser and seeing if the application responds.

2. Check that the springdoc-openapi-ui dependency is correctly added to your pom.xml file and that it is being downloaded by Maven. You can check this by running `mvn dependency:tree` and verifying that the dependency is listed.

3. Verify that the OpenAPI specification is correctly configured in your Spring Boot application. You can do this by checking that the `@OpenAPIDefinition` annotation is present on your main application class and that it specifies the correct OpenAPI version.

4. Check that the Swagger UI endpoint is correctly configured in your Spring Boot application. You can do this by verifying that the `@EnableSwagger2` annotation is present on your main application class and that it specifies the correct URL path for the Swagger UI endpoint.

If none of these steps resolve the issue, you may need to provide more information about your application configuration and error messages to diagnose the problem further.

--------
