
# Post \#65001259 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65001259/)

## Correct way to communicate the result of a background thread to the Ui Thread in Android

**Vote**: 22 (248/702) **Views**: 12435 (390/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-358

Created at 2020-11-25 08:48:44

Tags: `java` `android` `multithreading` `android-asynctask` `threadpoolexecutor`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

This is one of the most confusing topics for me. .
Imagine I want to update some `TextView` with some information I just downloaded.There is 3 things I use when I need to perform background tasks:

## AsyncTask


Very easy to use, this one has the `onPostExecute()` method that will return the result directly to the UiThread so I can use a callback interface or do whatever I want. I liked this class but it's 

## ThreadPoolExecutor


This is what I actually use when need to perform background tasks and here comes my problem, the moment when I have to give the result to the UiThread. I have informed myself about `Looper` and `Handler` classes and about the `mainLooper`.
So, when I need to return some results I use the method `runOnUiThread()` that, as I have readed, just get the `Looper` of the Ui thread and post my `Runnable` to the queue.
Well this is working and I can communicate with the main thread but, I find it really ugly, and I am sure there is a more elegant way of doing it than populate all my code of "`runOnUiThread()`" methods. Also, if the background task need too much time, maybe the user already change of `Activity` or `Fragment` when the code inside `runOnUiThread()` runs what will cause `Exceptions` (I know using `LiveData` and `MVVM` pattern would solve this last problem but I am working in a legacy project and I can't refactor all the code so I am working with the clasical Activity mvc pattern)
 I really searched a lot but didn't find anything...

## Coroutines


I am actually working in a legacy project and I must use Java so can't use Kotlin `coroutines`, but I find them easy to use and so powerfull.
Any help would be appreciated!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

It seems like you're looking for a more elegant way to perform background tasks and update the UI thread in Android using Java. Here are a few suggestions:

1. **Use a `Handler` with a `Looper`:** You've mentioned `Handler` and `Looper`, but it seems like you're not using them to their full potential. You can create a `Handler` object in your UI thread, and then use this `Handler` to post `Runnable` objects from your background thread. This `Runnable` will then be executed on the UI thread.

```java
Handler mainHandler = new Handler(Looper.getMainLooper());

mainHandler.post(new Runnable() {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        // Update UI
    }
});
```

2. **Use `AsyncTask` with WeakReferences:** If you're worried about memory leaks or exceptions when the user navigates away from an Activity or Fragment, you can use `WeakReference` in your `AsyncTask`. This allows the `AsyncTask` to be garbage collected if the Activity or Fragment is destroyed.

```java
private static class MyAsyncTask extends AsyncTask<Void, Void, String> {
    private WeakReference<TextView> weakTextView;

    MyAsyncTask(TextView textView) {
        weakTextView = new WeakReference<>(textView);
    }

    @Override
    protected String doInBackground(Void... params) {
        // Do background work
        return "Result";
    }

    @Override
    protected void onPostExecute(String result) {
        TextView textView = weakTextView.get();
        if (textView != null) {
            textView.setText(result);
        }
    }
}
```

3. **Use `RxJava`:** `RxJava` is a powerful library for composing asynchronous and event-based programs using observable sequences. It can be used to handle background tasks and update the UI thread in a clean and efficient way. However, it has a steep learning curve and might be overkill for simple tasks.

```java
Observable.fromCallable(() -> {
    // Do background work
    return "Result";
})
.subscribeOn(Schedulers.io())
.observeOn(AndroidSchedulers.mainThread())
.subscribe(result -> {
    // Update UI
});
```

Remember, the key to updating the UI from a background thread in Android is to make sure that the UI update is performed on the main thread. The methods above all ensure this in different ways. Choose the one that best fits your needs and the complexity of your project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you're looking for a more elegant way to handle background tasks and updating the UI thread in Android using Java.

One of the best ways to handle this is to use a combination of `Handler` and `HandlerThread`. Here's a simple example:

```java
HandlerThread handlerThread = new HandlerThread("background-thread");
handlerThread.start();
Handler backgroundHandler = new Handler(handlerThread.getLooper());

backgroundHandler.post(new Runnable() {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        // Perform long operation here (this will be run in background thread)

        final String result = "Result from long operation";

        // Now update the UI thread
        new Handler(Looper.getMainLooper()).post(new Runnable() {
            @Override
            public void run() {
                // This will be executed in main thread
                textView.setText(result);
            }
        });
    }
});
```

In this example, `HandlerThread` is a convenient class that starts a new thread with a `Looper`. The `Looper` can then be used to create a `Handler` that runs tasks in that thread.

The `Handler` associated with the `HandlerThread` is used to post a `Runnable` to the background thread. Inside this `Runnable`, you can perform your long operation.

Once the long operation is complete, you can use a new `Handler` associated with the main `Looper` to post a `Runnable` to the main thread. Inside this `Runnable`, you can update your `TextView`.

This approach is more flexible than `AsyncTask` and `ThreadPoolExecutor` because it allows you to post multiple tasks to the background thread and handle messages between the main thread and the background thread.

However, it's still a bit verbose and error-prone compared to Kotlin's coroutines. If you're working on a legacy project, it might be worth considering gradually introducing Kotlin into your codebase. You can have both Java and Kotlin code in the same project, and they can interoperate seamlessly. This way, you can start using coroutines for new features, while maintaining the existing Java code.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems like you're looking for a more elegant way to handle background tasks and updating the UI thread in Android using Java. Here are a few suggestions:

1. **Use a Handler**: You can create a new `Handler` object associated with the main thread and use its `post()` method to run code on the UI thread. This is similar to `runOnUiThread()`, but it can be a bit more flexible.

```java
Handler mainHandler = new Handler(Looper.getMainLooper());

mainHandler.post(new Runnable() {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        // Update UI
    }
});
```

2. **Use an Event Bus**: Libraries like EventBus or RxJava can be used to post events from background threads to the main thread. This can be a cleaner solution if you have a lot of inter-thread communication.

```java
EventBus.getDefault().post(new UpdateUIEvent(result));
```
Then in your UI thread, you can subscribe to `UpdateUIEvent`.

3. **Use LiveData**: You mentioned that you can't refactor all your code to use MVVM and LiveData, but you might consider using it just for the parts of your code that involve background tasks and updating the UI. LiveData is lifecycle-aware, meaning it automatically handles cases where the Activity or Fragment has been destroyed.

4. **Use a Callback**: You can define an interface as a callback, implement it in your UI thread, and then pass it to your background task. When the task is done, it can call a method on the callback to update the UI.

Remember, it's important to always check if the Activity or Fragment is still active before updating the UI to avoid exceptions. You can do this by calling `isFinishing()` for Activity or `isAdded()` for Fragment.

--------
