
# Post \#72683786 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72683786/)

## Error while importing Springboot 2.7 projects in intellij Idea with maven 3.8.5

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 16771 (336/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-345

Created at 2022-06-20 07:49:46

Tags: `java` `spring` `spring-boot` `maven` `intellij-idea`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

when Using start.spring.io
projects generated with springboot 2.7 comes with MavenProject 3.8.5 which when imported in intellij causes an error that is quite difficult to debug or not self speaking by itself.
The error
```
java.lang.RuntimeException: org.codehaus.plexus.component.repository.exception.ComponentLookupException: com.google.inject.ProvisionException: Unable to provision, see the following errors:

1) Error injecting constructor, java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: org.apache.maven.model.validation.DefaultModelValidator: method 'void <init>()' not found
  at org.jetbrains.idea.maven.server.embedder.CustomModelValidator.<init>(Unknown Source)
  while locating org.jetbrains.idea.maven.server.embedder.CustomModelValidator
  at ClassRealm[maven.ext, parent: ClassRealm[plexus.core, parent: null]] (via modules: org.eclipse.sisu.wire.WireModule -> org.eclipse.sisu.plexus.PlexusBindingModule)
  while locating org.apache.maven.model.validation.ModelValidator annotated with @com.google.inject.name.Named(value="ide")

1 error
      role: org.apache.maven.model.validation.ModelValidator
  roleHint: ide
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs because IntelliJ is using an older version of Maven (3.6.3) which is not compatible with the newer version of Spring Boot (2.7). To fix this issue, you can do the following:

1. Update your IntelliJ to the latest version (2021.3 or later) which includes Maven 3.8.1.

2. If you cannot update IntelliJ, you can manually update Maven to version 3.8.1 or later. You can download the latest version of Maven from the official website (https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi).

3. Once you have updated Maven, you can go to IntelliJ's settings and change the Maven home directory to the new version of Maven.

4. Finally, you can re-import your project and the error should be resolved.

If you still face any issues, you can try creating a new project with the latest version of Spring Boot and Maven, and then copy your code into the new project. This should ensure that you are using the latest compatible versions of Spring Boot and Maven.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error occurs because IntelliJ IDEA is using an older version of Maven (3.6.3) which is not compatible with the newer version of Spring Boot (2.7). To fix this issue, you can follow these steps:

1. Open the Maven settings in IntelliJ IDEA by going to File -> Settings -> Build, Execution, Deployment -> Build Tools -> Maven.

2. In the Maven settings, click on the "Maven home directory" field and select the directory where you have installed Maven 3.8.5.

3. Click on the "Apply" button to save the changes.

4. Now, re-import the Maven project by going to File -> New -> Project from Existing Sources -> select the pom.xml file of your project.

5. IntelliJ IDEA will now use the newer version of Maven and the error should be resolved.

If the error still persists, you can try deleting the .idea and target folders in your project directory and re-importing the project again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error occurs because IntelliJ is using an older version of Maven (3.6.3) which is not compatible with the newer version of Spring Boot (2.7). To fix this issue, you can do the following:

1. Update your IntelliJ to the latest version (2021.3 or later) which comes with Maven 3.8.3.

2. If you cannot update IntelliJ, you can manually update Maven to version 3.8.3 or later. To do this, go to the Maven website and download the latest version of Maven. Then, update the Maven home directory in IntelliJ by going to Preferences > Build, Execution, Deployment > Build Tools > Maven and updating the Maven home directory to the new version.

3. Another option is to downgrade the Spring Boot version to a version that is compatible with the older version of Maven. You can do this by going to start.spring.io and selecting a version of Spring Boot that is compatible with Maven 3.6.3.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
