
# Post \#64019647 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64019647/)

## Why is an empty else-if statement bad style, and how should I rewrite it?

**Vote**: 72 (90/702) **Views**: 11746 (399/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-5-340

Created at 2020-09-23 01:13:31

Tags: `java` `if-statement`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `java` (full parsed tag list: `java`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

The program that automatically grades my code is docking me "style-points" for an else-if that doesn't execute any code. It says that it may cause an error, but I don't think it could.
I'm not sure how to change it so that it still works but doesn't break the rule. Why is doing this bad form? I think any other way I write it will be harder for a reader to understand. How should it be written instead?
```
if (! seesWater(LEFT))
{
    turn(LEFT);
}
else if (! seesWater(AHEAD));
else if (! seesWater(RIGHT))
{
    turn(RIGHT);
}
else
{
    turn180();
}
```

The reason the else-if is there but does nothing is because of the priority in which I want the code to act:
`if (! seesWater(AHEAD))`, then I don't want the rest of the conditions to run at all because they don't matter.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue with your code is that you have an empty `else if` statement. This is considered bad form because it can be confusing to other programmers who might read your code. They might wonder if you forgot to add code in that block or if it's intentionally left blank. It also makes your code less readable and harder to maintain.

The `else if` statement `else if (! seesWater(AHEAD));` doesn't actually prevent the rest of the conditions from running. It's just an empty statement that does nothing. If `!seesWater(AHEAD)` is true, the program does nothing and then moves on to the next `else if` statement.

If you want to stop the rest of the conditions from running if `!seesWater(AHEAD)` is true, you can use a return statement or throw an exception, depending on the context of your code.

Here's how you can rewrite your code:

```java
if (! seesWater(LEFT))
{
    turn(LEFT);
}
else if (! seesWater(AHEAD))
{
    // Do nothing
}
else if (! seesWater(RIGHT))
{
    turn(RIGHT);
}
else
{
    turn180();
}
```

In this version, if `!seesWater(AHEAD)` is true, the program will do nothing and then skip the rest of the `else if` and `else` statements. This is because only one block of code in an `if-else if-else` chain will be executed. Once a condition is met, the rest are skipped.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue with your code is the empty `else if` statement. It's considered bad form because it can lead to confusion and potential bugs. Even though it may seem to make sense in your context, it's generally not a good practice to leave empty blocks of code as it can be misleading to others reading your code.

In your case, you can simply remove the empty `else if` statement and the logic of your code will remain the same. Here's how you can rewrite it:

```csharp
if (!seesWater(LEFT))
{
    turn(LEFT);
}
else if (!seesWater(RIGHT))
{
    turn(RIGHT);
}
else if (seesWater(AHEAD))
{
    // Do nothing
}
else
{
    turn180();
}
```

In this version, if `seesWater(AHEAD)` is true, then the code does nothing and skips to the next condition. This maintains your priority order and avoids the empty `else if` statement.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue with your code is the empty `else if` statement. This is considered bad form because it can lead to confusion and potential bugs. In your case, it seems like you're trying to use it as a way to control the flow of your program, but it's not clear to other programmers (or to automated grading systems) what your intention is.

If you want to prioritize the conditions, you can use nested if-else statements. Here's how you can rewrite your code:

```java
if (!seesWater(LEFT)) {
    turn(LEFT);
} else {
    if (!seesWater(AHEAD)) {
        // Do nothing
    } else if (!seesWater(RIGHT)) {
        turn(RIGHT);
    } else {
        turn180();
    }
}
```

In this version, if `!seesWater(LEFT)` is true, the robot will turn left and the rest of the conditions won't be checked. If it's false, then it will check the other conditions in order. If `!seesWater(AHEAD)` is true, it will do nothing and won't check the remaining conditions. If it's false, it will continue to the next condition, and so on.

This way, the priority of the conditions is preserved, and the code is more readable and less likely to cause confusion or errors.

--------
