
# Post \#56866981 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56866981/)

## File is locked by Visual Studio 2019

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 25250 (261/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-400

Created at 2019-07-03 09:27:25

Tags: `c#` `visual-studio` `visual-studio-2019` `locked-files`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a weird problem in Visual Studio:
if an  during the debugging process I'm not able to build my
C# application:
```
Unable to copy file "C:\Projects\A\bin\A.dll" to "..\..\bin\A.dll". 
  The process cannot access the file '..\..\bin\A.dll' because it is being used 
  by another process.

Could not copy "C:\Projects\A\bin\A.dll" to "..\..\bin\A.dll". 
  Exceeded retry count of 10. Failed. 
  The file is locked by: "Microsoft Visual Studio 2019 (14904)"
```

Is there a permanent solution to solve this strange error? (my only workaround is currently to restart Visual Studio)
What I tried and not worked for me:
- - - - - 
It's also not practical to insert Pre-build event scripts in all of my projects! Link: [https://blog.ndepend.com/visual-studio-script-saves-time-pain/](https://blog.ndepend.com/visual-studio-script-saves-time-pain/)
Does anyone have a solution to this problem?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error message occurs when Visual Studio is unable to copy the DLL file because it is being used by another process. This can happen if the DLL file is still loaded in memory by the debugger or another application.

Here are some possible solutions to this problem:

1. Close all instances of Visual Studio and any other applications that may be using the DLL file. Then try building your application again.

2. If the DLL file is still locked, you can try using a tool like Process Explorer to find out which process is holding a lock on the file. Once you have identified the process, you can try closing it or killing it to release the lock on the file.

3. Another solution is to use a tool like Unlocker to unlock the DLL file. This tool can help you identify which process is holding a lock on the file and give you the option to unlock it.

4. You can also try disabling the "Enable Edit and Continue" option in Visual Studio. This option allows you to modify code while debugging, but it can also cause issues with file locking. To disable this option, go to Tools > Options > Debugging > General and uncheck the "Enable Edit and Continue" option.

5. Finally, you can try changing the output directory for your project to a different location. This can help avoid file locking issues if the output directory is not being used by any other process.

I hope one of these solutions works for you and helps you avoid having to restart Visual Studio every time you encounter this issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error occurs when the A.dll file is locked by another process, which in this case is Visual Studio. There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Close all instances of Visual Studio and try building the project again.
2. Check if any other application is using the A.dll file. If yes, close that application and try building the project again.
3. If the above solutions do not work, you can try deleting the bin folder manually and then rebuild the project. This will force Visual Studio to create a new bin folder and copy the required files to it.
4. Another solution is to use a tool like Process Explorer to find out which process is locking the A.dll file and then terminate that process. However, this solution is not recommended as it can cause data loss or other issues.

If none of the above solutions work, you can try repairing or reinstalling Visual Studio.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error usually occurs when the A.dll file is still in use by another process, in this case, Visual Studio. Here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Close all instances of Visual Studio and try building your application again.

2. Check if any other application is using the A.dll file. If yes, close that application and try building your application again.

3. Try deleting the A.dll file manually from the "..\..\bin\" folder and then rebuild your application. This should force Visual Studio to create a new A.dll file.

4. If none of the above solutions work, you can try using a tool like Process Explorer to find out which process is using the A.dll file and then terminate that process.

5. Another solution is to use a tool like Unlocker to unlock the A.dll file and then try building your application again.

6. You can also try disabling the "Enable Edit and Continue" option in Visual Studio. To do this, go to Tools > Options > Debugging > General and uncheck the "Enable Edit and Continue" option.

I hope one of these solutions works for you.

--------
