
# Post \#58371328 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58371328/)

## OnInitializedAsync() in blazor

**Vote**: 13 (343/702) **Views**: 31634 (225/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-421

Created at 2019-10-14 06:41:43

Tags: `c#` `blazor`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have used `OnInitializedAsync()` in my code. In that hook, I am fetching data.
In markup, I have checked whether data is null or not. But I found that data checked is executed before the `onInitalizedAsync()` triggered. Meanwhile, after getting data too, data checked is executed.
I have checked the blazor documents but struggling to find why it triggered at first.
```
<Component1>
  @if (Data != null)
      {
        @foreach (var item in Data) {
             <Component2>
        }
       }
</Componet1>

@code{
  protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync() {
       Data = //data from dataBase
  }
}
```

I need to execute data checked only after data fetch. Can anyone guide me to fix this issue?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Blazor, the lifecycle method `OnInitializedAsync()` is called when the component is initialized. However, the rendering of the component happens before the `OnInitializedAsync()` method completes its execution. This is why you are seeing the check for null data before the data is fetched.

To avoid this, you can use a boolean flag to check if the data has been loaded. You can set this flag to true after your data has been fetched in `OnInitializedAsync()`. Here's how you can do it:

```csharp
<Component1>
  @if (IsDataLoaded)
  {
    @foreach (var item in Data) {
         <Component2>
    }
  }
</Component1>

@code{
  private bool IsDataLoaded = false;

  protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync() {
       Data = //data from dataBase
       IsDataLoaded = true;
  }
}
```

In this code, the `foreach` loop will only execute after the data has been loaded, because `IsDataLoaded` is set to true only after the data is fetched.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `OnInitializedAsync()` method is called when the component is initialized, but before the component is rendered for the first time. As it is an asynchronous method, it doesn't block the rendering process. So, the component will be rendered even if the `OnInitializedAsync()` method hasn't completed yet.

In your case, the component is being rendered before the data is fetched from the database. That's why the `if` condition is checked before the data is available.

To fix this issue, you can introduce a boolean flag that indicates whether the data has been loaded or not. You can set this flag to `true` after the data is fetched from the database. In your markup, you can then check this flag before rendering the data.

Here is an example:

```csharp
<Component1>
  @if (IsDataLoaded)
  {
    @foreach (var item in Data) {
      <Component2>
    }
  }
</Component1>

@code{
  private bool IsDataLoaded = false;

  protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync() {
    Data = //data from dataBase
    IsDataLoaded = true;
  }
}
```

In this example, the `foreach` loop will only be executed after the data is loaded from the database.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Blazor, the `OnInitializedAsync` method is part of the component lifecycle and it's called when the component is initialized. However, the rendering of the component happens before the `OnInitializedAsync` method is called. This is why you see the data check being executed before the data is fetched.

To solve this issue, you can use a boolean flag to indicate whether the data has been loaded or not. You can set this flag to true after the data has been fetched in the `OnInitializedAsync` method. In your markup, you can then check this flag before accessing the data.

Here's an example of how you can do this:

```csharp
<Component1>
  @if (IsDataLoaded)
  {
    @foreach (var item in Data) {
         <Component2>
    }
  }
</Component1>

@code{
  private bool IsDataLoaded = false;

  protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync() {
       Data = //data from dataBase
       IsDataLoaded = true;
  }
}
```

In this example, the `IsDataLoaded` flag is initially set to false. After the data is fetched in the `OnInitializedAsync` method, the flag is set to true. The markup then checks this flag before accessing the data. This ensures that the data is only accessed after it has been loaded.

--------
