
# Post \#56066832 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56066832/)

## How to set SameSite cookie attribute to explicit None ASP NET Core

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 28106 (240/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-402

Created at 2019-05-09 20:08:11

Tags: `c#` `asp.net` `asp.net-core`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Chrome 76 will begin to support an explicit `SameSite: None` attribute 

[https://web.dev/samesite-cookies-explained/](https://web.dev/samesite-cookies-explained/)

I found that the current implementation of ASP.NET Core treats `SameSiteMode.None` as a no-op and does not send any attribute. How can I add a custom attribute to a cookie and thereby add an explicit `SameSite: None` to the cookie text?

Appending the attribute to the cookie value does not work as HttpResponse.Cookies.Append url-encodes the cookie value.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To add a custom attribute to a cookie in ASP.NET Core, you can use the `SetCookie` method of the `HttpResponse` object. Here's an example:

```
Response.Cookies.Append("cookieName", "cookieValue");

// Get the cookie and add the SameSite attribute
var cookie = Response.Cookies.Get("cookieName");
cookie.SameSite = SameSiteMode.None;
Response.Cookies.Append("cookieName", cookie.Value, new CookieOptions
{
    SameSite = cookie.SameSite
});
```

In this example, we first append the cookie to the response using the `Append` method. Then, we retrieve the cookie using the `Get` method and add the `SameSite` attribute to it. Finally, we append the cookie again, this time passing in a `CookieOptions` object that specifies the `SameSite` attribute.

Note that the `SameSite` attribute is only supported in Chrome 76 and later versions, so be sure to test your code in different browsers to ensure compatibility.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can add a custom attribute to a cookie in ASP.NET Core by creating a new instance of the `CookieOptions` class and setting the `SameSite` property to `SameSiteMode.None`. Here's an example:

```csharp
var cookieOptions = new CookieOptions
{
    SameSite = SameSiteMode.None,
    Secure = true, // Set this to true if the cookie should only be sent over HTTPS
    HttpOnly = true // Set this to true if the cookie should not be accessible from JavaScript
};

Response.Cookies.Append("cookieName", "cookieValue", cookieOptions);
```

This will add a cookie with the name "cookieName" and the value "cookieValue", along with the `SameSite: None` attribute. Note that you should also set the `Secure` property to true if the cookie should only be sent over HTTPS, and the `HttpOnly` property to true if the cookie should not be accessible from JavaScript.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To add a custom attribute to a cookie and add an explicit `SameSite: None` to the cookie text, you can use the `SetCookie` method of the `HttpResponse` object in ASP.NET Core.

Here's an example code snippet that demonstrates how to add a custom attribute to a cookie and set the `SameSite` attribute to `None`:

```csharp
// create a new cookie
var cookieOptions = new CookieOptions
{
    // set the cookie options
    Path = "/",
    HttpOnly = true,
    Secure = true,
    SameSite = SameSiteMode.None
};

// add a custom attribute to the cookie
var cookieValue = "my-cookie-value";
var cookieText = $"{cookieValue}; SameSite=None";

// set the cookie using the SetCookie method
Response.Headers.Append("Set-Cookie", cookieText);
```

In this example, we create a new `CookieOptions` object and set the `Path`, `HttpOnly`, `Secure`, and `SameSite` properties. Then, we add a custom attribute to the cookie by appending `"; SameSite=None"` to the cookie value. Finally, we set the cookie using the `SetCookie` method of the `HttpResponse` object.

Note that we are using the `Headers.Append` method instead of the `Cookies.Append` method to set the cookie. This is because the `Cookies.Append` method does not allow us to add custom attributes to the cookie.

--------
