
# Post \#71954271 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71954271/)

## How can I read the appsettings.json in a .Net 6 console application?

**Vote**: 41 (153/702) **Views**: 44054 (181/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-406

Created at 2022-04-21 12:11:47

Tags: `c#` `json` `console-application` `.net-6.0`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#` `json`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I try to create a .Net 6 Console Application but having troubles reading my appsettings.json file. In a web application I could use this...
```
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
```

But what would I use in a console application? I get this error when trying to add it to program.cs. `"The name 'WebApplication' does not exist in the current context"`


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In a .NET 6 console application, you don't have the `WebApplication` class available. Instead, you can use the `ConfigurationBuilder` class to read the `appsettings.json` file. Here's an example:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using System;
using System.IO;

class Program
{
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        var builder = new ConfigurationBuilder()
            .SetBasePath(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory())
            .AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: false, reloadOnChange: true);

        IConfigurationRoot configuration = builder.Build();

        // Now you can use the configuration object to get your settings
        var mySetting = configuration.GetSection("MySetting").Value;
        Console.WriteLine(mySetting);
    }
}
```

In this example, `appsettings.json` should be in the same directory as your executable. If it's not, you should adjust the path accordingly. Also, make sure that the `appsettings.json` file is being copied to the output directory. You can ensure this by going to the file properties (right click on the file in Solution Explorer -> Properties) and set 'Copy to Output Directory' to 'Copy if newer'. 

Don't forget to install the `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration` and `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json` NuGet packages to your project. You can do this via the NuGet package manager or by running the following commands in your package manager console:

```
Install-Package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration
Install-Package Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json
```

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In a .NET 6 console application, you don't have the `WebApplication` class available. Instead, you can use the `ConfigurationBuilder` to load the `appsettings.json` file. Here is an example:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using System;

var builder = new ConfigurationBuilder()
    .SetBasePath(AppDomain.CurrentDomain.BaseDirectory)
    .AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: true, reloadOnChange: true);

IConfiguration configuration = builder.Build();

// Now you can access your settings.
string mySetting = configuration["MySetting"];
```

In this code:

- `SetBasePath(AppDomain.CurrentDomain.BaseDirectory)` sets the base path for the configuration file to the directory where the application is running.
- `AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: true, reloadOnChange: true)` adds the `appsettings.json` file to the configuration. The `optional` parameter is set to `true` to avoid throwing an exception if the file is not found, and `reloadOnChange` is set to `true` to reload the configuration if the file changes while the application is running.
- `configuration["MySetting"]` retrieves the value of `MySetting` from the configuration. Replace `"MySetting"` with the actual key of the setting you want to retrieve.

Remember to add the `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration` and `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json` NuGet packages to your project if they are not already included.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In a .NET 6 console application, you can't use `WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args)` because it's specific to ASP.NET Core web applications. However, you can still read the `appsettings.json` file using `ConfigurationBuilder`. Here's how you can do it:

First, make sure you have these packages installed:
- Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration
- Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json

Then, you can use the following code to read the `appsettings.json` file:

```csharp
var builder = new ConfigurationBuilder()
    .SetBasePath(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory())
    .AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: true, reloadOnChange: true);

IConfiguration configuration = builder.Build();

// Now you can access your settings.
string mySetting = configuration["MySetting"];
```

In this code, `SetBasePath(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory())` sets the base path to the current directory, and `AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: true, reloadOnChange: true)` adds the `appsettings.json` file to the configuration builder.

After building the configuration, you can access your settings using the indexer with the key of the setting.

Please make sure that your `appsettings.json` file is set to copy to the output directory. You can do this by right-clicking the file in Solution Explorer, selecting Properties, and then setting Copy to Output Directory to Copy if newer.

--------
