
# Post \#52921966 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52921966/)

## Unable to resolve ILogger from Microsoft.Extensions.Logging

**Vote**: 163 (30/702) **Views**: 139233 (57/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-398

Created at 2018-10-22 03:16:38

Tags: `c#` `.net` `dependency-injection` `.net-core` `ilogger`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've configured my console application's `Main` like so
```
var services = new ServiceCollection()
    .AddLogging(logging => logging.AddConsole())
    .BuildServiceProvider();
```

And then I try to use it in another class like so
```
private readonly ILogger _logger;
    
public MyClass(ILogger logger)
{
    _logger = logger;
}

public void MyFunc()
{
    _logger.Log(LogLevel.Error, "My Message");
}
```

> System.InvalidOperationException: 'Unable to resolve service for type
'Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger'
I've tried the solutions [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/51329388/2025666) but it didn't work for me.

Based on Yaakov's comment below and [this Github comment](https://github.com/domaindrivendev/Swashbuckle.AspNetCore/issues/92#issuecomment-223991293) I'm able to resolve it correctly by doing this
```
public MyClass(ILogger<MyClass> logger)
{
    _logger = logger;
}
```

I would have preferred to have this in the initial `BuildServiceProvider` but looks like I'm gonna have to repeat this every time I want to use the logger (or create my own ILogger).


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `ILogger<T>` interface is a generic interface that allows you to associate the logger with a specific class. This is useful for filtering logs based on the class that produced them. 

When you register the logger service with `AddLogging()`, it only registers the non-generic `ILoggerFactory` and `ILogger` interfaces. The `ILogger<T>` interface is not directly registered, but it can be resolved because the `ILoggerFactory` can create an instance of `ILogger<T>`.

If you want to inject `ILogger` instead of `ILogger<T>`, you can do so by creating a factory that creates `ILogger` instances:

```csharp
public static class ServiceCollectionExtensions
{
    public static IServiceCollection AddLogger(this IServiceCollection services)
    {
        return services.AddSingleton<ILogger>(provider =>
        {
            var factory = provider.GetRequiredService<ILoggerFactory>();
            return factory.CreateLogger("MyLogger");
        });
    }
}
```

Then you can use this extension method to register the `ILogger` service:

```csharp
var services = new ServiceCollection()
    .AddLogging(logging => logging.AddConsole())
    .AddLogger()
    .BuildServiceProvider();
```

Now you can inject `ILogger` into your classes:

```csharp
public MyClass(ILogger logger)
{
    _logger = logger;
}
```

However, keep in mind that this will give you a single logger instance for the entire application. If you want to have different loggers for different classes, you should stick with `ILogger<T>`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `ILogger<T>` interface is a generic version of `ILogger`, where `T` is the class into which the logger is being injected. The logger factory creates an instance of `ILogger<T>` for each class `T` that requests it, and the logger instance includes the name of the class `T` in the log messages it generates. This is useful for filtering and searching log messages based on the class that generated them.

The `ILogger` interface is non-generic version and it doesn't include the class name in the log messages it generates.

In your case, you're trying to inject `ILogger` which is not registered in the DI container, hence the error. When you change it to `ILogger<MyClass>`, it works because the logging service is set up to provide instances of `ILogger<T>`.

If you want to use `ILogger` instead of `ILogger<T>`, you can do so by creating a factory that creates instances of `ILogger`. Here's an example:

```csharp
public class LoggerFactory : ILoggerFactory
{
    private readonly IServiceProvider _serviceProvider;

    public LoggerFactory(IServiceProvider serviceProvider)
    {
        _serviceProvider = serviceProvider;
    }

    public ILogger CreateLogger<T>()
    {
        return _serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ILogger<T>>();
    }
}
```

You can then register this factory in your DI container:

```csharp
services.AddSingleton<LoggerFactory>();
```

And use it to create instances of `ILogger`:

```csharp
public class MyClass
{
    private readonly ILogger _logger;

    public MyClass(LoggerFactory loggerFactory)
    {
        _logger = loggerFactory.CreateLogger<MyClass>();
    }

    public void MyFunc()
    {
        _logger.Log(LogLevel.Error, "My Message");
    }
}
```

This way, you can use `ILogger` and still have the class name included in the log messages.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The behavior you're seeing is due to how the Microsoft.Extensions.Logging library is designed. When you add logging services to your service collection using `AddLogging()`, it adds a bunch of services related to logging, but it does not add a service for `ILogger`. Instead, it adds a service for `ILogger<T>`, where `T` is the type that will be using the logger.

This is why you're able to resolve `ILogger<MyClass>` but not `ILogger`. The `ILogger<T>` interface is designed to automatically include the name of the `T` type in all log messages, which can be very helpful for tracking where log messages are coming from.

If you want to avoid having to specify the type every time you inject a logger, you could create a wrapper class around `ILogger<T>` that takes a string for the category name instead of a type. Here's an example:

```csharp
public class MyLogger : ILogger
{
    private readonly ILogger _logger;

    public MyLogger(IServiceProvider serviceProvider, string categoryName)
    {
        _logger = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ILoggerFactory>().CreateLogger(categoryName);
    }

    // Implement ILogger methods, forwarding calls to _logger
}
```

Then you can register `MyLogger` as a service in your `Main` method:

```csharp
var services = new ServiceCollection()
    .AddLogging(logging => logging.AddConsole())
    .AddSingleton<MyLogger>()
    .BuildServiceProvider();
```

And inject it like this:

```csharp
public MyClass(MyLogger logger)
{
    _logger = logger;
}
```

This way, you can control the category name for each instance of `MyLogger` without having to specify a type.

--------
