
# Post \#56866981 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56866981/)

## File is locked by Visual Studio 2019

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 25250 (261/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-400

Created at 2019-07-03 09:27:25

Tags: `c#` `visual-studio` `visual-studio-2019` `locked-files`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a weird problem in Visual Studio:
if an  during the debugging process I'm not able to build my
C# application:
```
Unable to copy file "C:\Projects\A\bin\A.dll" to "..\..\bin\A.dll". 
  The process cannot access the file '..\..\bin\A.dll' because it is being used 
  by another process.

Could not copy "C:\Projects\A\bin\A.dll" to "..\..\bin\A.dll". 
  Exceeded retry count of 10. Failed. 
  The file is locked by: "Microsoft Visual Studio 2019 (14904)"
```

Is there a permanent solution to solve this strange error? (my only workaround is currently to restart Visual Studio)
What I tried and not worked for me:
- - - - - 
It's also not practical to insert Pre-build event scripts in all of my projects! Link: [https://blog.ndepend.com/visual-studio-script-saves-time-pain/](https://blog.ndepend.com/visual-studio-script-saves-time-pain/)
Does anyone have a solution to this problem?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

This issue is often caused by Visual Studio locking the DLL files during the build process. Here are a few solutions that might help:

1. **Clean Solution**: Before building your solution, try to clean it first. You can do this by right-clicking on the solution and selecting "Clean Solution". This will delete all the compiled and temporary files associated with a solution.

2. **Close all open instances of Visual Studio**: Sometimes, multiple instances of Visual Studio can cause file locking issues. Make sure to close all instances of Visual Studio before building your solution.

3. **Disable the hosting process**: This can be done by going to Project -> Properties -> Debug -> and uncheck "Enable the Visual Studio hosting process".

4. **Use Unlocker**: Unlocker is a tool that can help you to take control of a file that is locked by a process. You can use it to unlock the DLL file that is causing the issue.

5. **Kill the process that is locking the file**: You can use a tool like Process Explorer to find out which process is locking the file and kill it.

6. **Disable parallel project builds**: Go to Tools -> Options -> Projects and Solutions -> Build and Run -> and set "maximum number of parallel project builds" to 1.

Remember to always backup your work before trying these solutions. If none of these solutions work, it might be a bug in Visual Studio and you should consider reporting it to Microsoft.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

This issue can occur when Visual Studio or another process is still using the DLL file when you try to build your project. Here are some solutions you can try:

1. **Clean Solution**: Before building your solution, try cleaning it first. Go to `Build > Clean Solution` and then try to build your solution again.

2. **Close Other Applications**: Make sure no other applications are using the DLL file. This includes other instances of Visual Studio, IIS, or any other application that might be using your DLL.

3. **Disable Antivirus Software**: Sometimes, antivirus software can lock files. Try disabling your antivirus software temporarily and see if the problem persists.

4. **Unlock DLL File**: You can use a tool like Process Explorer to find out which process is locking the DLL file. Once you find the process, you can kill it to unlock the DLL file.

5. **Delete obj Folder**: Try deleting the obj folder in your project directory and then rebuild your project.

6. **Update Visual Studio**: Make sure you are using the latest version of Visual Studio. This issue might be a bug that has been fixed in a newer version.

7. **Use MSBuild**: Try using MSBuild from the command line to build your project. This can sometimes avoid issues that occur within the Visual Studio IDE.

Remember to always backup your project before trying these solutions. If none of these solutions work, you might want to consider contacting Microsoft Support for further assistance.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

This issue is usually caused by Visual Studio locking the DLL file during the build process. Here are a few solutions you might want to consider:

1. **Clean Solution**: Before building your solution, try to clean it first. You can do this by right-clicking on the solution in Solution Explorer and selecting "Clean Solution". This will delete all the compiled and temporary files associated with a solution.

2. **Close All Applications**: Make sure that no other applications are using the DLL file. This includes any instances of the application that might be running in the background.

3. **Disable the Hosting Process**: In some cases, the Visual Studio hosting process can cause this issue. You can disable it by going to the project properties (right-click on the project in Solution Explorer and select "Properties"), then go to the "Debug" tab and uncheck the "Enable the Visual Studio hosting process" option.

4. **Unlocker Tool**: There are several third-party tools that can unlock files that are being used by another process. One such tool is Unlocker. Please note that you should use such tools with caution and only if you understand the implications.

5. **Update Visual Studio**: Make sure that your Visual Studio is up to date. Microsoft regularly releases updates that fix known issues.

6. **Switch off the antivirus software**: Sometimes, antivirus software can lock files. Try to switch off your antivirus software temporarily and see if the problem persists.

Remember to always backup your work before trying these solutions.

--------
