
# Post \#58659431 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58659431/)

## 'propertyName' cannot be used as a property on entity type 'typeName' because it is configured as a navigation

**Vote**: 30 (193/702) **Views**: 19159 (311/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-396

Created at 2019-11-01 12:42:02

Tags: `c#` `asp.net` `entity-framework` `asp.net-core` `entity-framework-core`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an entity `user` with the following:

```
public class User
{
    [Key, Required]
    public int Id { get; set; }
    public int GenderId { get; set; }
    public virtual Gender Gender { get; set; }
}
```


In `gender`:

```
public class Gender
{
    [Key, Required]
    public int Id { get; set; }
    public virtual ICollection<User> Users { get; set; }
}
```


Then, inside my `DbContext`, I have:

```
protected override void OnModelCreating(ModelBuilder modelBuilder)
{
    modelBuilder.Entity<User>(user =>
    {
        user
        .HasOne(x => x.Gender)
        .WithMany(x => x.Users)
        .HasForeignKey(x => x.GenderId);
    }

    user.HasIndex(x => x.Gender);
}
```


When I run `dotnet ef add migration User`, I am getting the error:

> 'Gender' cannot be used as a property on entity type 'User' because it
  is configured as a navigation.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message is indicating that you cannot use the `Gender` property as an index on the `User` entity because it is already configured as a navigation property. 

To fix this error, you can remove the `user.HasIndex(x => x.Gender);` line from your `OnModelCreating` method. This line is not necessary because the `GenderId` property is already being used as a foreign key to link the `User` and `Gender` entities.

Here is the updated `OnModelCreating` method:

```
protected override void OnModelCreating(ModelBuilder modelBuilder)
{
    modelBuilder.Entity<User>(user =>
    {
        user
        .HasOne(x => x.Gender)
        .WithMany(x => x.Users)
        .HasForeignKey(x => x.GenderId);
    }
}
``` 

After making this change, you should be able to run `dotnet ef add migration User` without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error is occurring because you are trying to create an index on the `Gender` property of the `User` entity, which is actually a navigation property. Navigation properties are not supported as index properties in Entity Framework Core.

To fix the error, remove the following line from your `OnModelCreating` method:

```
user.HasIndex(x => x.Gender);
```

If you need to create an index on the `GenderId` property, you can do so by adding the following line:

```
user.HasIndex(x => x.GenderId);
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message is indicating that you cannot use the `Gender` property as an index on the `User` entity because it is configured as a navigation property. Navigation properties are used to define relationships between entities and cannot be used as regular properties.

To fix this error, you can remove the `user.HasIndex(x => x.Gender);` line from your `OnModelCreating` method. If you need to create an index on the `GenderId` property, you can add the following line:

```
user.HasIndex(x => x.GenderId);
```

This will create an index on the `GenderId` column in the `User` table.

--------
