
# Post \#69952420 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69952420/)

## How to disable Browser Link in ASP.NET Core (.NET 6, VS 2022)

**Vote**: 33 (185/702) **Views**: 6913 (484/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-397

Created at 2021-11-13 07:44:26

Tags: `c#` `visual-studio` `asp.net-core` `.net-core` `browser-link`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have disabled Browser Link inside Visual Studio 2022, and I have also disabled all the Hot Reload functionality.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/0KgN3.png)
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/SmZuJ.png)
Even the Browser Link Dashboard indicates it should be disabled:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/8qxYg.png)
I also  any of the `app.UseBrowserLink();` code anywhere in my code. (as documented in [Browser Link in ASP.NET Core](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/client-side/using-browserlink?view=aspnetcore-6.0).
However, these middlewares still somehow appear in the request pipeline:
- `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Watch.BrowserRefresh.BrowserRefreshMiddleware`- `Microsoft.WebTools.BrowserLink.Net.BrowserLinkMiddleware`
These middlewares add this to my HTML:
```
<!-- Visual Studio Browser Link -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://localhost:44399/0928d478a97d441187231f2a1a7cd5e5/browserLink" async="async" id="__browserLink_initializationData" data-requestId="c94cf93088fb44e98f4e499b20ad7bfe" data-requestMappingFromServer="False"></script>
<!-- End Browser Link -->

<script src="/_framework/aspnetcore-browser-refresh.js"></script></body>
```

And every time I save a file, it reloads the browser. I want to stop this behaviour, and I ran out of options how.
Is this something that the IIS Express or Visual Studio add automatically?
I also checked all the packages and DLLs, and I don't see it included anywhere in my code. It must be included automatically via some "magic" that Visual Studio 2022 does.



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It is possible that the Browser Link middleware is being added automatically by Visual Studio or IIS Express. You can try disabling it by adding the following code to your `Startup.cs` file:

```
app.Use(async (context, next) =>
{
    context.Response.Headers.Remove("X-AspNet-Version");
    await next();
});
```

This code removes the `X-AspNet-Version` header, which is added by the Browser Link middleware. If this header is not present in the response, the Browser Link middleware will not be able to connect to the browser.

If this does not work, you can try disabling the Browser Link middleware explicitly by adding the following code to your `Startup.cs` file:

```
app.UseBrowserLink(options =>
{
    options.Enabled = false;
});
```

This code disables the Browser Link middleware explicitly, even if it is being added automatically by Visual Studio or IIS Express.

If neither of these solutions work, you can try disabling the Browser Link feature in Visual Studio itself. To do this, go to `Tools > Options > Projects and Solutions > ASP.NET Core` and uncheck the `Enable Browser Link` option.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It is possible that these middlewares are being added automatically by Visual Studio or IIS Express. One way to confirm this is to create a new ASP.NET Core project and see if these middlewares are present in the request pipeline by default.

To stop the behavior of the browser reloading every time you save a file, you can try disabling the Browser Refresh middleware. You can do this by removing the following line from your `Startup.cs` file:

```
app.UseBrowserRefresh();
```

If this line is not present in your `Startup.cs` file, you can try disabling the Browser Refresh middleware by adding the following line to your `appsettings.json` file:

```
{
  "Watch": {
    "BrowserRefreshEnabled": false
  }
}
```

This should disable the Browser Refresh middleware and stop the browser from reloading every time you save a file.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It is possible that the Browser Link and Browser Refresh middleware are being added automatically by Visual Studio or IIS Express. To disable them completely, you can try the following steps:

1. In your project's `Startup.cs` file, remove any references to `app.UseBrowserLink()` and `app.UseBrowserRefresh()`.

2. In your project's `launchSettings.json` file, add the following lines to the `profiles` section:

```
"IIS Express": {
  "environmentVariables": {
    "ASPNETCORE_BROWSERLINK_ENABLED": "false",
    "ASPNETCORE_BROWSERSYNC_ENABLED": "false"
  }
}
```

This will disable both Browser Link and Browser Refresh for the IIS Express profile.

3. If you are using the Visual Studio Development Server, you can add the following lines to your project's `.csproj` file:

```
<PropertyGroup>
  <AspNetCoreHostingModel>OutOfProcess</AspNetCoreHostingModel>
  <AspNetCoreBrowserLinkEnabled>false</AspNetCoreBrowserLinkEnabled>
  <AspNetCoreBrowserRefreshEnabled>false</AspNetCoreBrowserRefreshEnabled>
</PropertyGroup>
```

This will disable both Browser Link and Browser Refresh for the Visual Studio Development Server.

After making these changes, rebuild your project and try running it again. The Browser Link and Browser Refresh middleware should no longer be present in the request pipeline, and the browser should no longer automatically refresh when you save a file.

--------
