
# Post \#71954271 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71954271/)

## How can I read the appsettings.json in a .Net 6 console application?

**Vote**: 41 (153/702) **Views**: 44054 (181/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-406

Created at 2022-04-21 12:11:47

Tags: `c#` `json` `console-application` `.net-6.0`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#` `json`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I try to create a .Net 6 Console Application but having troubles reading my appsettings.json file. In a web application I could use this...
```
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
```

But what would I use in a console application? I get this error when trying to add it to program.cs. `"The name 'WebApplication' does not exist in the current context"`


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In a .NET 6 Console Application, you can use the `Host` class to build and run your application. Here's an example of how to read the `appsettings.json` file:

1. First, add the `Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting` NuGet package to your project.

2. In your `Program.cs` file, add the following code:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;

var builder = new HostBuilder()
    .ConfigureAppConfiguration((hostingContext, config) =>
    {
        config.AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: true);
    })
    .ConfigureServices((hostContext, services) =>
    {
        // Add your services here
    });

await builder.RunConsoleAsync();
```

This code creates a new `HostBuilder` instance and configures it to read the `appsettings.json` file. You can then add your services to the `ConfigureServices` method.

3. Make sure your `appsettings.json` file is in the root of your project and set its "Copy to Output Directory" property to "Copy always" or "Copy if newer".

With these changes, you should be able to read the `appsettings.json` file in your .NET 6 Console Application.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In a .NET 6 Console Application, you can use the `Host` class to configure and run your application. Here's an example of how you can read the `appsettings.json` file:

1. First, make sure you have the `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration` and `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json` NuGet packages installed.

2. In your `Program.cs` file, add the following using statements:

```
using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
```

3. In the `Main` method, create a new `HostBuilder`:

```
var builder = Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args);
```

4. Configure the `HostBuilder` to read the `appsettings.json` file:

```
builder.ConfigureAppConfiguration((hostingContext, config) =>
{
    config.AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: true, reloadOnChange: true);
});
```

This will add the `appsettings.json` file to the configuration of your application.

5. Build the `Host` and run the application:

```
var host = builder.Build();
host.Run();
```

You can now access the configuration values from the `appsettings.json` file using the `IConfiguration` interface. For example:

```
var configuration = host.Services.GetService<IConfiguration>();
var mySetting = configuration.GetValue<string>("MySetting");
```

Replace `MySetting` with the name of the setting you want to read from the `appsettings.json` file.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In a .NET 6 Console Application, you can use the `Host` class to read the appsettings.json file. Here's an example of how to do it:

1. Add the following NuGet packages to your project:
   - Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting
   - Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json

2. In your `Program.cs` file, add the following code:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;

var builder = new HostBuilder()
    .ConfigureAppConfiguration((hostingContext, config) =>
    {
        config.AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", optional: true);
    })
    .ConfigureServices((hostContext, services) =>
    {
        // Add your services here
    });

await builder.RunConsoleAsync();
```

This code creates a `HostBuilder` instance and configures it to read the `appsettings.json` file. You can then add your services to the `ConfigureServices` method.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
