
# Post \#67547355 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67547355/)

## Record type with multiple constructors

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 14198 (368/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-404

Created at 2021-05-15 13:43:29

Tags: `c#` `.net` `c#-9.0`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How do I create  for a record type in C#?
I created a record type like this:
```
public record Person(int Id, string FirstName, string LastName)
```

Now I want to introduce another constructor overload with no parameters, how can I do that?
In a normal class I would do something like this:
```
public class Person
{
    public int Id { get; set; }
    public string FirstName { get; set; }
    public string LastName { get; set; }

    public Person()
    {
        
    }

    public Person(int id, string firstName, string lastName)
    {
        Id = id;
        FirstName = firstName;
        LastName = lastName;
    }
}
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In C#, you can add another constructor overload to a record type using the `init` keyword. Here's an example:

```
public record Person(int Id, string FirstName, string LastName)
{
    public Person() : this(0, "", "")
    {
    }
    
    public Person(int id, string firstName, string lastName) : this(id, firstName, lastName)
    {
    }
}
```

In this example, we've added a parameterless constructor that calls the primary constructor with default values. The `init` keyword is used to indicate that the properties can only be set during object initialization, not after.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In C# 9, you can add a parameterless constructor to a record type by using the `init` keyword. Here's an example:

```
public record Person(int Id, string FirstName, string LastName)
{
    public Person() : this(0, "", "") { }
}
```

In this example, we're using the `this` keyword to call the existing constructor with default values for the parameters. The `init` keyword allows us to set the properties of the record after it has been created.

Note that the `init` keyword can only be used with properties that have a setter. If you need to set properties that are read-only, you can use the `with` expression to create a new record with the updated values.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In a record type, you can add a constructor overload with no parameters using the `init` keyword. Here's an example:

```
public record Person(int Id, string FirstName, string LastName)
{
    public Person() : this(0, "", "") { }
}
```

In this example, the `Person()` constructor calls the existing constructor with default values for the parameters. The `init` keyword ensures that the properties can only be set during object initialization and not modified afterwards.

--------
