
# Post \#60306175 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60306175/)

## Bearer error="invalid_token", error_description="The issuer is invalid"

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 25915 (256/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-390

Created at 2020-02-19 17:35:25

Tags: `c#` `asp.net-core` `.net-core` `postman` `identityserver4`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a simple web api project, which looks like this:

```
[Authorize]
        [Route("Get")]
        public ActionResult<string> SayHello()
        {
            return "Hello World";
        }
```


I am trying to test it with Postman.  By following the steps here: [https://kevinchalet.com/2016/07/13/creating-your-own-openid-connect-server-with-asos-testing-your-authorization-server-with-postman/](https://kevinchalet.com/2016/07/13/creating-your-own-openid-connect-server-with-asos-testing-your-authorization-server-with-postman/)

1) Send the request below and receive a token as expected:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/iqduu.png)

2) Attempt to send another request with the authorization token as shown below:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/StJYj.png)

Why do I get a 401 (unauthorized) error? The WWW-Authenticate response header says: Bearer error="invalid_token", error_description="The issuer is invalid".  I am using .Net Core 3.1.  I have commented out the sensitive information in the screenshots.

The web api works as expected when accessed from an MVC application.

Here is the startup code:

```
services.AddAuthentication("Bearer")
                .AddIdentityServerAuthentication(options =>
                {
                    options.Authority = identityUrl; //identityurl is a config item
                    options.RequireHttpsMetadata = false;
                    options.ApiName = apiName;

                });
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message "Bearer error="invalid_token", error_description="The issuer is invalid"" indicates that the token you are using is not valid for the API you are trying to access. 

This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The token was issued by a different authorization server than the one you are trying to access. Make sure that the authorization server you are using to obtain the token is the same as the one specified in the `options.Authority` property.

2. The API name specified in the `options.ApiName` property does not match the `aud` claim in the token. Make sure that the `aud` claim in the token matches the API name.

3. The token has expired. Check the `exp` claim in the token to see if it has expired.

4. The token signature is invalid. Make sure that the token was signed with the correct key.

You can also try to decode the token using a JWT decoder to see if it contains the correct claims and values. This will help you identify any issues with the token itself.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message "Bearer error="invalid_token", error_description="The issuer is invalid"" indicates that the token you are using is not valid for the API you are trying to access. 

One possible reason for this could be that the `apiName` parameter in the `AddIdentityServerAuthentication` method is not set correctly. Make sure that the `apiName` parameter matches the name of the API resource defined in the IdentityServer configuration.

Another possible reason could be that the `Authority` parameter is not set correctly. Make sure that the `identityUrl` parameter matches the URL of the IdentityServer instance that issued the token.

You can also try to debug the issue by checking the token's claims. You can decode the token using a tool like [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/) and check if it contains the correct audience (`aud`) and issuer (`iss`) claims.

If none of these solutions work, you can try enabling logging for the authentication middleware by adding the following code to the `Configure` method in your `Startup.cs` file:

```
app.UseAuthentication();
app.Use(async (context, next) =>
{
    var user = context.User;
    if (user?.Identity?.IsAuthenticated == true)
    {
        var claims = user.Claims.Select(c => $"{c.Type}: {c.Value}");
        var identity = user.Identity;
        var authenticationType = identity.AuthenticationType;
        var isAuthenticated = identity.IsAuthenticated;
        var name = identity.Name;
        var label = $"{authenticationType} {isAuthenticated} {name}";
        var separator = new string('-', 50);
        var message = $"{separator}\n{label}\n{string.Join("\n", claims)}\n{separator}\n";
        Console.WriteLine(message);
    }
    await next();
});
```

This will log the claims of the authenticated user and can help you identify any issues with the authentication process.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message "Bearer error='invalid_token', error_description='The issuer is invalid'" indicates that the token you are using is not valid for the specified API. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The token was issued by a different authorization server than the one specified in your API's configuration. Make sure that the `Authority` property in your `AddIdentityServerAuthentication` options matches the URL of the authorization server that issued the token.

2. The token was issued for a different audience than the one specified in your API's configuration. Make sure that the `ApiName` property in your `AddIdentityServerAuthentication` options matches the `aud` claim in the token.

3. The token has expired or has been revoked. Check the expiration time (`exp` claim) and revocation status of the token.

4. There is a mismatch between the signing key used by the authorization server to sign the token and the one used by your API to validate it. Make sure that the `SigningCredential` property in your authorization server's configuration and the `IssuerSigningKey` property in your API's `AddIdentityServerAuthentication` options are using the same key.

You can also try enabling logging in your API to get more information about the error. Add the following code to your `Configure` method in `Startup.cs`:

```
app.Use(async (context, next) =>
{
    await next();

    if (context.Response.StatusCode == 401)
    {
        var logger = context.RequestServices.GetRequiredService<ILogger<Startup>>();
        logger.LogInformation("Unauthorized request: {url}", context.Request.Path);
    }
});

app.UseAuthentication();
```

This will log any unauthorized requests and their URLs, which can help you diagnose the issue.

--------
