
# Post \#72828521 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72828521/)

## Implementing both IDisposable and IAsyncDisposable

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 849 (670/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-411

Created at 2022-07-01 11:22:46

Tags: `c#` `dispose` `idisposable` `iasyncdisposable`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Say I have a non-sealed class that does not deal with any unmanaged resources. I need to make a single async call during its disposing stage to do some clean up. There are no other managed resources to deal with.
From what I understand, in order to make the async clean up call, I must implement IAsyncDisposable and use the DisposeAsync() and DisposeAsyncCore() methods. But the guidance says that you should also implement the dispose pattern when you implement the async dispose pattern. This is all fine but there's nothing really I need to do in the Dispose().
So my question is, should the Dispose() logic be empty or do I need something to do the async cleanup in a synchronous way? (see comment in code about "What if anything should go here").
```
public class MyClass : IDisposable, IAsyncDisposable
{
    private bool disposed;

    public void Dispose()
    {
        Dispose(true);
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    public async ValueTask DisposeAsync()
    {
        await DisposeAsyncCore().ConfigureAwait(false);

        Dispose(false);
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    protected virtual void Dispose(bool disposing)
    {
        if (!disposed)
        {
            if (disposing)
            {
                // What if anything should go here?
            }

            disposed = true;
        }
    }

    protected virtual async ValueTask DisposeAsyncCore()
    {
        // Make async cleanup call here e.g. Database.CleanupAsync();
    }
}
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

If there is nothing to do in the synchronous Dispose() method, you can leave it empty. The async DisposeAsync() method will take care of the cleanup asynchronously. It is not necessary to duplicate the cleanup logic in the synchronous Dispose() method. 

However, you should still call Dispose(false) in the async DisposeAsync() method to ensure that the base class's Dispose(bool) method is called and the disposed flag is set.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

If there is nothing to do in the synchronous Dispose() method, then you can leave it empty. The purpose of the synchronous Dispose() method is to provide a way for users of your class to release resources synchronously if they choose to do so. However, since you have no managed resources to release, there is no need to provide any logic in the Dispose() method. 

The asynchronous DisposeAsync() method is the primary method for releasing resources in your class, and the Dispose() method is just a convenience method. So, in your case, you can leave the Dispose() method empty and focus on implementing the asynchronous DisposeAsyncCore() method to perform the necessary clean-up.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

If there is nothing to do in the synchronous Dispose() method, then you can leave it empty. The purpose of the synchronous Dispose() method is to provide a way for users of your class to release resources synchronously if they choose to do so. However, since you have no managed resources to release, there is no need for any logic in the Dispose() method. 

The async DisposeAsync() method is the primary way to release resources in an asynchronous manner, and the DisposeAsyncCore() method is where you should put your async cleanup logic. So, in your case, you can leave the Dispose() method empty and focus on implementing the async dispose pattern.

--------
