
# Post \#70864286 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70864286/)

## Should static files be included in a Docker Image?

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 1163 (649/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-391

Created at 2022-01-26 13:36:29

Tags: `c#` `.net` `docker` `image` `dockerfile`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a .NET microservice running as a docker container that is responsible for sending emails to customers. These emails contains additional banner which is a png file.
Should that file be included in my Docker Image during build process? Is it a good practise at all?
Is it a better approach to upload the file to an already built container or linked the file stored in different place?
Dockerfile
```
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspnet:5.0-buster-slim AS base

WORKDIR /app

EXPOSE 80

FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:5.0-buster-slim AS build

WORKDIR /src

COPY src/Email.Service/Email.Service.csproj .
COPY nuget.config .

RUN dotnet restore Email.Service.csproj --configfile nuget.config

COPY src/Email.Service .

RUN dotnet build Email.Service.csproj -c Release -o /app

FROM build AS publish

RUN dotnet publish Email.Service.csproj -c Release -o /app

FROM base AS final

WORKDIR /app

COPY --from=publish /app .

COPY src/Email.Service/Assets Assets

ENTRYPOINT [ "dotnet" ]
CMD [ "Email.Service.dll" ]
```

banner.png lives in Assets directory in the project.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Including the banner.png file in the Docker image during the build process is a common practice and is recommended. This ensures that the file is available in the container when it is deployed, and it simplifies the deployment process.

You can copy the banner.png file to the container during the build process using the Dockerfile. You have already done that in your Dockerfile by copying the Assets directory to the final image. This is a good approach.

Another approach is to store the banner.png file in a separate location, such as an S3 bucket or a shared network drive, and then download it during the container startup. This approach can be useful if the file is large and you don't want to include it in the Docker image. However, it adds complexity to the deployment process and requires additional configuration.

Overall, including the banner.png file in the Docker image during the build process is a good practice and simplifies the deployment process.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Including the banner.png file in the Docker image during the build process is a good practice, as it ensures that the file is always available and consistent across all instances of the container. This also makes it easier to deploy the container to different environments without having to worry about missing files.

You can include the banner.png file in the Docker image by adding the following line to your Dockerfile:

```
COPY src/Email.Service/Assets/banner.png /app/Assets/banner.png
```

This will copy the banner.png file from the project directory to the /app/Assets directory in the Docker image.

Alternatively, you can store the banner.png file in a separate location and mount it as a volume when running the container. This approach allows you to update the file without having to rebuild the Docker image. To do this, you can use the -v option when running the container:

```
docker run -v /path/to/banner.png:/app/Assets/banner.png my-image
```

This will mount the banner.png file from the host machine to the /app/Assets directory in the container.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Including the banner.png file in the Docker image during the build process is a common practice and is recommended. This ensures that the file is available within the container at runtime and can be easily accessed by the microservice.

You can include the banner.png file in the Docker image by adding the following line to your Dockerfile:

```
COPY src/Email.Service/Assets/banner.png /app/Assets/banner.png
```

This will copy the banner.png file from the project directory to the /app/Assets directory within the Docker image.

Alternatively, you can also mount the directory containing the banner.png file as a volume when running the container. This approach allows you to update the file without rebuilding the Docker image. However, this approach requires additional configuration and may not be suitable for all use cases.

Overall, including the banner.png file in the Docker image during the build process is a good practice and is recommended for most use cases.

--------
