
# Post \#61396213 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61396213/)

## Entity Framework - [Keyless] Data Annotation Missing

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 8824 (440/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-388

Created at 2020-04-23 20:16:04

Tags: `c#` `entity-framework-core` `data-annotations`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

According with the Microsoft Documentation [Here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/modeling/keyless-entity-types?tabs=data-annotations), I should have access to the Attribute for [Keyless] so I can define my Model has Keyless, so that in my DBContext I could have something like:

```
public DbSet<MyKeylessClass> KeylessModel { get; set; }
```


And use `_context.KeylessModel.FromSqlRaw(...)`, without having the need to add a PK to it.
I have the reference to `System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations` and all the Attributes except Keyless are there, what am I missing here?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `[Keyless]` attribute is part of the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` namespace, not `System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations`. So, you need to make sure you have the correct using statement at the top of your file:

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
```

Also, ensure that you have the appropriate Entity Framework Core package installed. If you're using .NET Core 3.x, you should have the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` package version `3.x` installed. If you're using .NET 5, you should have the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` package version `5.x` installed.

You can check this in your project file (.csproj) or via the NuGet package manager in Visual Studio. If you're not sure, you can always install or update it via the NuGet package manager console:

```shell
Install-Package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore -Version 5.0.0
```

Replace `5.0.0` with the version that matches your .NET version.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `[Keyless]` attribute is not part of `System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations`, it's part of `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore`. So, you need to make sure you have the correct using directive at the top of your file:

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
```

Also, ensure that you have the correct version of Entity Framework Core installed that supports keyless entity types. This feature was introduced in EF Core 3.0, so you need to have at least this version or a later one.

You can check your EF Core version in your .csproj file. If you're using a version older than 3.0, you'll need to update it. You can do this through the NuGet package manager in Visual Studio, or by manually editing the .csproj file to include the correct version:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore" Version="3.0.0" />
</ItemGroup>
```

Remember to restore the packages after updating the version.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `[Keyless]` attribute is part of the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` namespace, not `System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations`. This attribute is used to specify that an entity type does not have a primary key and therefore cannot be tracked by the DbContext. 

To use the `[Keyless]` attribute, you need to install the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Relational` package and add the following using directive at the top of your file:

```csharp
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
```

Then you can use the `[Keyless]` attribute in your model class like this:

```csharp
[Keyless]
public class MyKeylessClass
{
    public string SomeProperty { get; set; }
    // other properties...
}
```

And in your `DbContext`:

```csharp
public DbSet<MyKeylessClass> KeylessModel { get; set; }
```

Now you should be able to use `_context.KeylessModel.FromSqlRaw(...)` without any issues.

--------
