
# Post \#58371328 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58371328/)

## OnInitializedAsync() in blazor

**Vote**: 13 (343/702) **Views**: 31634 (225/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-421

Created at 2019-10-14 06:41:43

Tags: `c#` `blazor`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have used `OnInitializedAsync()` in my code. In that hook, I am fetching data.
In markup, I have checked whether data is null or not. But I found that data checked is executed before the `onInitalizedAsync()` triggered. Meanwhile, after getting data too, data checked is executed.
I have checked the blazor documents but struggling to find why it triggered at first.
```
<Component1>
  @if (Data != null)
      {
        @foreach (var item in Data) {
             <Component2>
        }
       }
</Componet1>

@code{
  protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync() {
       Data = //data from dataBase
  }
}
```

I need to execute data checked only after data fetch. Can anyone guide me to fix this issue?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use a boolean flag to indicate whether the data has been fetched or not. Set the flag to true after the data has been fetched and use it to conditionally render the data in the markup. Here's an example:

```
<Component1>
  @if (IsDataFetched && Data != null)
  {
    @foreach (var item in Data) {
      <Component2>
    }
  }
</Componet1>

@code{
  private bool IsDataFetched = false;

  protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync() {
    Data = //data from dataBase
    IsDataFetched = true;
  }
}
```

In this example, the `IsDataFetched` flag is initially set to false. After the data has been fetched in the `OnInitializedAsync()` method, the flag is set to true. In the markup, the data is only rendered if both the flag is true and the data is not null. This ensures that the data is only rendered after it has been fetched.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use a boolean flag to indicate whether the data has been fetched or not. Initially, set the flag to false and update it to true after fetching the data. Then, in the markup, check the flag instead of the data itself. Here's an example:

```
<Component1>
  @if (IsDataFetched)
  {
    @if (Data != null)
    {
      @foreach (var item in Data) {
        <Component2>
      }
    }
    else
    {
      <p>No data found.</p>
    }
  }
  else
  {
    <p>Loading data...</p>
  }
</Component1>

@code{
  private bool IsDataFetched = false;

  protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync() {
    Data = await GetDataFromDatabase();
    IsDataFetched = true;
  }

  private async Task<List<MyData>> GetDataFromDatabase() {
    // Fetch data from database
  }
}
```

In this example, we added a boolean flag `IsDataFetched` and set it to false initially. In the markup, we first check if the data has been fetched by checking the `IsDataFetched` flag. If it is false, we display a "Loading data..." message. If it is true, we check if the `Data` is null or not and display the appropriate message or render the `Component2` component. 

By doing this, the data check will only be executed after the data has been fetched.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The issue you are facing is due to the asynchronous nature of the `OnInitializedAsync()` method. The `if` condition in the markup is executed before the `OnInitializedAsync()` method is completed, hence the `Data` variable is still null at that point.

To fix this issue, you can use a boolean flag to indicate whether the data has been fetched or not. You can set this flag to true after the data has been fetched, and then use this flag in the `if` condition to check whether the data has been fetched or not.

Here's an updated code snippet that demonstrates this approach:

```
<Component1>
  @if (IsDataFetched && Data != null)
  {
    @foreach (var item in Data) {
      <Component2>
    }
  }
</Componet1>

@code{
  private bool IsDataFetched = false;

  protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync() {
    Data = await GetDataFromDatabase();
    IsDataFetched = true;
  }
}
```

In this code, we have added a boolean flag `IsDataFetched` that is initially set to false. After the data has been fetched, we set this flag to true. In the `if` condition, we check whether the `IsDataFetched` flag is true and whether the `Data` variable is not null. This ensures that the `if` condition is executed only after the data has been fetched.

I hope this helps you to fix the issue. Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
