
# Post \#56143613 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56143613/)

## Inject generic interface in .NET Core

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 46265 (176/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-394

Created at 2019-05-15 07:17:55

Tags: `c#` `asp.net-core` `dependency-injection` `.net-core` `asp.net-core-mvc`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to inject this interface to my controllers:
```
public interface IDatabaseService<T>
{
    IEnumerable<T> GetList();
    ...
}
```

I want to use generic, because in my `WebApi` project i have controllers like `ProjectController`, `TaskController` etc and i want to use generic interface to each of type (for example, `IDatabaseService<Project>`, `IdatabaseService<Task>` etc).
Class, that will be injected to controller will look like this:
```
public class ProjectService : IDatabaseService<Project>
{
    private readonly DbContext context;

    public ProjectService(DbContext context)
    {
        this.context = context;
    }

    public IEnumerable<Project> GetList() { }
    ...
}
```

But when I try to ineject in my `Startup.cs`:
```
services.AddScoped<IDatabaseService<T>>();
```

I need to pass `T` type.
My question is, how to make injection generic and how inject it properly in controller? For example:
```
public class ProjectController : ControllerBase
{
    private readonly ProjectService projectService;

    public ProjectController (IDatabaseService<Project> projectService)
    {
        this.projectService = projectService;
    }
}
```

If it will work? And is it good practice to make generic interface to inject into controllers? If no, how to do it better?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To inject a generic interface, you can use the open generic registration feature of the .NET Core DI container. Here's how you can register your `IDatabaseService<T>` interface in the `Startup.cs` file:

```
services.AddScoped(typeof(IDatabaseService<>), typeof(ProjectService));
```

This registers `ProjectService` as the implementation for all closed versions of the `IDatabaseService<T>` interface. Now you can inject `IDatabaseService<Project>` into your `ProjectController` constructor.

```
public class ProjectController : ControllerBase
{
    private readonly IDatabaseService<Project> projectService;

    public ProjectController(IDatabaseService<Project> projectService)
    {
        this.projectService = projectService;
    }
}
```

This is a good practice to use a generic interface to inject into controllers, especially when you have multiple controllers that need to use the same service with different types. It helps to reduce code duplication and makes the code more maintainable.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To make the injection generic, you can use the open generic registration feature of the .NET Core DI container. Here's how you can do it:

1. Change the registration in `Startup.cs` to the following:

```
services.AddScoped(typeof(IDatabaseService<>), typeof(ProjectService));
```

This registers `ProjectService` as the implementation for all closed versions of `IDatabaseService<T>`.

2. Change the constructor of `ProjectController` to the following:

```
public ProjectController(IDatabaseService<Project> projectService)
{
    this.projectService = (ProjectService)projectService;
}
```

This casts the injected `IDatabaseService<Project>` to `ProjectService`, which is the actual implementation.

This approach is a good practice as it allows you to reuse the same interface and implementation for different types of entities. However, you should be careful when casting the injected interface to the actual implementation, as it may cause runtime errors if the injected implementation is not of the expected type.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To make the injection generic, you can use the open generic registration feature of the .NET Core DI container. You can register the `IDatabaseService<T>` interface as an open generic type and then register the concrete implementation of the service for each type `T` that you need to use.

Here's an example of how you can register the open generic type in your `Startup.cs` file:

```
services.AddScoped(typeof(IDatabaseService<>), typeof(ProjectService));
services.AddScoped(typeof(IDatabaseService<>), typeof(TaskService));
```

This registers the `IDatabaseService<T>` interface as an open generic type and maps it to the `ProjectService` and `TaskService` concrete implementations.

Then, in your controller, you can inject the `IDatabaseService<T>` interface with the specific type you need, like this:

```
public class ProjectController : ControllerBase
{
    private readonly IDatabaseService<Project> projectService;

    public ProjectController(IDatabaseService<Project> projectService)
    {
        this.projectService = projectService;
    }
}
```

This is a good practice because it allows you to write reusable code that can work with different types of data. It also makes your code more maintainable and easier to test.

--------
