
# Post \#71201393 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71201393/)

## How to create a global variable in ASP.NET Core Web API application?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 9771 (418/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-389

Created at 2022-02-21 04:58:48

Tags: `c#` `asp.net-core`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How can I create a global variable in an ASP.NET Core Web API application? In ASP.NET MVC, I could do it like:
`Application["<variableName>"] = <value>`
I tried the same in my web API application, but was unable to find an equivalent for this. I saw some solutions which suggested me to store the data `appsettings.json`, but since the data I want to store in the global variable is not static, I cannot use that setup. I need to set different data during runtime. How can I do that? Please help me.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In ASP.NET Core, you can use the `IHttpContextAccessor` service to create a global variable. Here's how you can do it:

1. Add the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http` package to your project.

2. In your `Startup.cs` file, add the following code to the `ConfigureServices` method:

```csharp
services.AddHttpContextAccessor();
```

3. In your controller or service, inject the `IHttpContextAccessor` service:

```csharp
private readonly IHttpContextAccessor _httpContextAccessor;

public MyController(IHttpContextAccessor httpContextAccessor)
{
    _httpContextAccessor = httpContextAccessor;
}
```

4. To set a global variable, use the `HttpContext` property of the `IHttpContextAccessor` service:

```csharp
_httpContextAccessor.HttpContext.Items["<variableName>"] = <value>;
```

5. To retrieve the global variable, use the `HttpContext` property again:

```csharp
var myVariable = _httpContextAccessor.HttpContext.Items["<variableName>"];
```

Note that the `Items` property of the `HttpContext` object is a dictionary, so you can store any type of data in it. Also, the data stored in the `Items` dictionary is only available for the current request, so if you need to persist data across multiple requests, you'll need to use a different approach, such as a database or a cache.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In ASP.NET Core, you can use the `IHttpContextAccessor` to create a global variable that can be accessed throughout the application. Here's how you can do it:

1. Add the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http` package to your project.

2. In the `Startup.cs` file, add the following code to the `ConfigureServices` method:

```
services.AddHttpContextAccessor();
```

3. In the class where you want to create the global variable, inject the `IHttpContextAccessor`:

```
private readonly IHttpContextAccessor _httpContextAccessor;

public MyClass(IHttpContextAccessor httpContextAccessor)
{
    _httpContextAccessor = httpContextAccessor;
}
```

4. Create the global variable and set its value:

```
_httpContextAccessor.HttpContext.Items["<variableName>"] = <value>;
```

5. To access the global variable from another class, inject the `IHttpContextAccessor` and retrieve the value:

```
var value = _httpContextAccessor.HttpContext.Items["<variableName>"];
```

Note that the value stored in the `HttpContext.Items` dictionary is only available for the duration of the current request. If you need to store data across multiple requests, you should consider using a database or a caching mechanism.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In ASP.NET Core, you can use the `IHttpContextAccessor` service to create a global variable. Here's how you can do it:

1. Add the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http` package to your project.

2. In the `Startup.cs` file, add the following code to the `ConfigureServices` method:

```
services.AddHttpContextAccessor();
```

3. In the class where you want to create the global variable, inject the `IHttpContextAccessor` service:

```
private readonly IHttpContextAccessor _httpContextAccessor;

public MyClass(IHttpContextAccessor httpContextAccessor)
{
    _httpContextAccessor = httpContextAccessor;
}
```

4. Create the global variable and set its value:

```
_httpContextAccessor.HttpContext.Items["<variableName>"] = <value>;
```

You can access the global variable from any part of your application using the `IHttpContextAccessor` service. For example:

```
var myValue = _httpContextAccessor.HttpContext.Items["<variableName>"];
```

--------
