
# Post \#63826138 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63826138/)

## Does C# perform short circuit evaluation of if statements with await?

**Vote**: 76 (82/702) **Views**: 5161 (518/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-418

Created at 2020-09-10 08:51:54

Tags: `c#` `if-statement` `async-await` `short-circuiting`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I believe that C# stops evaluating an if statement condition as soon as it is able to tell the outcome. So for example:
```
if ( (1 < 0) && check_something_else() )
    // this will not be called
```

Since the condition `(1 < 0)` evaluates as `false`, the `&&` condition cannot be met, and `check_something_else()` will not be called.
How does C# evaluate an if statement with asynchronous functions? Does it wait for both to return? So for example:
```
if( await first_check() && await second_check() )
    // ???
```

Will this ever be short-circuited?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, C# evaluates an if statement with asynchronous functions in the same way as with synchronous functions. It will short-circuit the evaluation of the condition as soon as it can determine the outcome.

In your example, if `await first_check()` returns `false`, then `await second_check()` will not be called because the `&&` condition cannot be met. Similarly, if `await first_check()` returns `true`, but `await second_check()` returns `false`, then the entire condition will be `false`.

However, it's important to note that using `await` in an if statement condition can have performance implications. The `await` keyword will cause the method to yield control to the calling thread until the asynchronous operation completes. This can potentially block the calling thread and reduce the overall performance of your application. It's generally recommended to use `await` outside of if statement conditions whenever possible.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, C# evaluates an if statement with asynchronous functions in the same way as with synchronous functions. It will short-circuit the evaluation of the condition as soon as it can determine the outcome.

In your example, if `await first_check()` returns `false`, then `await second_check()` will not be called because the `&&` operator cannot be satisfied. Similarly, if `await first_check()` returns `true`, but `await second_check()` returns `false`, then the entire condition will be `false`.

However, it's important to note that the `await` keyword will cause the execution of the method to pause until the asynchronous operation completes. So, if `first_check()` and `second_check()` are both asynchronous operations, the execution of the method will pause twice while waiting for each operation to complete.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, C# evaluates an if statement with asynchronous functions in the same way as with synchronous functions. It will short-circuit the evaluation of the condition as soon as it can determine the outcome.

In your example, if `await first_check()` returns `false`, then `await second_check()` will not be called because the `&&` operator requires both conditions to be true in order for the overall condition to be true.

However, it's important to note that using `await` in the condition of an if statement can have unintended consequences. The `await` keyword causes the method to return control to the calling method, and when the awaited task completes, it resumes execution of the method. This means that the method may not execute in the order you expect, and it may not be thread-safe.

It's generally better to await the tasks separately and then evaluate the results in the if statement. For example:

```
var firstResult = await first_check();
var secondResult = await second_check();
if (firstResult && secondResult)
{
    // ...
}
```

--------
