
# Post \#71201393 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71201393/)

## How to create a global variable in ASP.NET Core Web API application?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 9771 (418/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-389

Created at 2022-02-21 04:58:48

Tags: `c#` `asp.net-core`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How can I create a global variable in an ASP.NET Core Web API application? In ASP.NET MVC, I could do it like:
`Application["<variableName>"] = <value>`
I tried the same in my web API application, but was unable to find an equivalent for this. I saw some solutions which suggested me to store the data `appsettings.json`, but since the data I want to store in the global variable is not static, I cannot use that setup. I need to set different data during runtime. How can I do that? Please help me.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In ASP.NET Core, you can use dependency injection to create a service that can be used to store and retrieve global variables. Here's a simple example:

1. First, create a class to hold your global variable:

```csharp
public class GlobalVariableService
{
    public string MyGlobalVariable { get; set; }
}
```

2. Then, register this class as a singleton in your `Startup.cs` file:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSingleton<GlobalVariableService>();
    // Other service configurations...
}
```

3. Now, you can inject this service into your controllers or other services and use it to get or set your global variable:

```csharp
public class MyController : Controller
{
    private readonly GlobalVariableService _globalVariableService;

    public MyController(GlobalVariableService globalVariableService)
    {
        _globalVariableService = globalVariableService;
    }

    public IActionResult Index()
    {
        // Set global variable
        _globalVariableService.MyGlobalVariable = "Hello, world!";

        // Get global variable
        var myGlobalVariable = _globalVariableService.MyGlobalVariable;

        // Use the global variable...
    }
}
```

This `GlobalVariableService` will be created once and the same instance will be injected wherever it's needed, so you can use it to share data globally.

Note: Be careful when using this approach, as it can lead to issues if not used properly. For example, if you're running multiple instances of your application (e.g. in a load-balanced environment), each instance will have its own `GlobalVariableService`, so changes made in one instance won't be reflected in others. Also, since this service is a singleton, it's shared by all users, so it's not suitable for storing user-specific data.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In ASP.NET Core, you can use the built-in dependency injection system to create a service that can be used to store and retrieve global data. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, create a class to hold your global data. This class can have properties for each piece of data you want to store.

```csharp
public class GlobalData
{
    public string MyVariable { get; set; }
    // Add other properties as needed
}
```

2. Register this class as a singleton service in your `Startup.cs` file. Singleton services are created the first time they're requested (or when `Startup.ConfigureServices` is run if you specify an instance there) and every subsequent request uses the same instance.

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSingleton<GlobalData>();
    // Add other services
}
```

3. Now, you can inject this service into your controllers or other services to access your global data.

```csharp
public class MyController : Controller
{
    private readonly GlobalData _globalData;

    public MyController(GlobalData globalData)
    {
        _globalData = globalData;
    }

    public IActionResult Index()
    {
        // Use _globalData.MyVariable here
    }
}
```

This way, you can store data that is shared across different parts of your application. However, be aware that this data is not persisted across application restarts, and it is not shared across multiple instances of your application if you're running in a load-balanced environment. If you need to share data across multiple instances or persist data across restarts, you'll need to use a database or some other form of persistent storage.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In ASP.NET Core, you can use the built-in dependency injection system to create a service that can be used to store and retrieve global data. Here's a simple example:

1. First, create a class that will hold your global data:

```csharp
public class GlobalData
{
    public string MyData { get; set; }
}
```

2. Then, in your `Startup.cs` file, add a singleton service for your `GlobalData` class in the `ConfigureServices` method:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSingleton<GlobalData>();
    // ...
}
```

3. Now you can inject `GlobalData` into your controllers and use it to store and retrieve data:

```csharp
[Route("api/[controller]")]
public class MyController : Controller
{
    private readonly GlobalData _globalData;

    public MyController(GlobalData globalData)
    {
        _globalData = globalData;
    }

    [HttpGet]
    public string Get()
    {
        return _globalData.MyData;
    }

    [HttpPost]
    public void Post([FromBody] string value)
    {
        _globalData.MyData = value;
    }
}
```

In this example, `GlobalData` is a singleton service, which means that the same instance is used throughout the application. Therefore, when you set a value in one controller, it will be available in all other controllers as well.

--------
