
# Post \#72828521 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72828521/)

## Implementing both IDisposable and IAsyncDisposable

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 849 (670/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-411

Created at 2022-07-01 11:22:46

Tags: `c#` `dispose` `idisposable` `iasyncdisposable`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Say I have a non-sealed class that does not deal with any unmanaged resources. I need to make a single async call during its disposing stage to do some clean up. There are no other managed resources to deal with.
From what I understand, in order to make the async clean up call, I must implement IAsyncDisposable and use the DisposeAsync() and DisposeAsyncCore() methods. But the guidance says that you should also implement the dispose pattern when you implement the async dispose pattern. This is all fine but there's nothing really I need to do in the Dispose().
So my question is, should the Dispose() logic be empty or do I need something to do the async cleanup in a synchronous way? (see comment in code about "What if anything should go here").
```
public class MyClass : IDisposable, IAsyncDisposable
{
    private bool disposed;

    public void Dispose()
    {
        Dispose(true);
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    public async ValueTask DisposeAsync()
    {
        await DisposeAsyncCore().ConfigureAwait(false);

        Dispose(false);
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    protected virtual void Dispose(bool disposing)
    {
        if (!disposed)
        {
            if (disposing)
            {
                // What if anything should go here?
            }

            disposed = true;
        }
    }

    protected virtual async ValueTask DisposeAsyncCore()
    {
        // Make async cleanup call here e.g. Database.CleanupAsync();
    }
}
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In your case, where you don't have any synchronous cleanup to do, you can leave the `Dispose(bool disposing)` method empty. The purpose of this method is to clean up managed and unmanaged resources in a synchronous way. If you don't have any such resources, there's no need to put anything in there.

However, it's important to note that if you have a class that implements `IAsyncDisposable`, and if there's a chance that it might be used in a context where the async disposal isn't used (for example, if it's used with a using statement instead of a using declaration), you should provide a synchronous fallback in the `Dispose()` method. This is to ensure that your cleanup code is always called, even if the consumer of your class doesn't use it in an async context.

In your case, if the cleanup code can only be called asynchronously (like an async database cleanup call), and if you're sure that your class will only be used in an async context, you can leave the `Dispose()` method empty. But if there's a chance it might be used in a non-async context, you should consider providing a synchronous fallback, even if it's less efficient.

Here's an example of how you might do that:

```csharp
protected virtual void Dispose(bool disposing)
{
    if (!disposed)
    {
        if (disposing)
        {
            // Synchronous cleanup code here, if necessary.
            // For example, you might block on the async cleanup call:
            // Database.CleanupAsync().GetAwaiter().GetResult();
        }

        disposed = true;
    }
}
```

This will block until the async cleanup call is complete, which is not ideal, but it ensures that the cleanup code is always called. Again, this is only necessary if there's a chance your class might be used in a non-async context. If you're sure it won't be, you can leave the `Dispose()` method empty.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In your case, where you don't have any synchronous cleanup to do, you can leave the Dispose(bool) method empty. The Dispose() method is there to clean up any managed resources in a synchronous way. If you don't have any, there's no need to put anything there.

However, you should still implement it, because it's part of the IDisposable interface and the dispose pattern. It's also a good practice to keep it there in case you need to add synchronous cleanup in the future.

Here is how your code should look:

```csharp
public class MyClass : IDisposable, IAsyncDisposable
{
    private bool disposed;

    public void Dispose()
    {
        Dispose(true);
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    public async ValueTask DisposeAsync()
    {
        await DisposeAsyncCore().ConfigureAwait(false);

        Dispose(false);
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    protected virtual void Dispose(bool disposing)
    {
        if (!disposed)
        {
            if (disposing)
            {
                // Nothing to clean up
            }

            disposed = true;
        }
    }

    protected virtual async ValueTask DisposeAsyncCore()
    {
        // Make async cleanup call here e.g. Database.CleanupAsync();
    }
}
```

Remember, the Dispose(bool) method is called by both Dispose() and DisposeAsync() methods. The boolean parameter 'disposing' is used to determine whether the method was called from a Dispose method (true), or a finalizer (false). In your case, since you don't have a finalizer, you can ignore this parameter.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In your case, since you don't have any synchronous cleanup to do, you can leave the `Dispose(bool disposing)` method empty. The `Dispose()` method is there to provide a synchronous cleanup mechanism for any managed or unmanaged resources. If you don't have any such resources to clean up, there's no need to put anything in there.

However, it's important to note that if your class is inherited by another class in the future, and that class has some synchronous cleanup to do, it can override `Dispose(bool disposing)` and put its cleanup logic there.

So, your code would look like this:

```csharp
public class MyClass : IDisposable, IAsyncDisposable
{
    private bool disposed;

    public void Dispose()
    {
        Dispose(true);
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    public async ValueTask DisposeAsync()
    {
        await DisposeAsyncCore().ConfigureAwait(false);

        Dispose(false);
        GC.SuppressFinalize(this);
    }

    protected virtual void Dispose(bool disposing)
    {
        if (!disposed)
        {
            // Nothing to clean up here
            disposed = true;
        }
    }

    protected virtual async ValueTask DisposeAsyncCore()
    {
        // Make async cleanup call here e.g. Database.CleanupAsync();
    }
}
```

Remember, the `Dispose()` method is still important to implement because it allows your class to be used correctly with interfaces or code that only understands `IDisposable` and not `IAsyncDisposable`.

--------
