
# Post \#70800034 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70800034/)

## Add Swagger description to minimal .NET6 APIs

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 8300 (453/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-395

Created at 2022-01-21 10:44:16

Tags: `c#` `swagger` `swagger-ui` `.net-6.0` `minimal-apis`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a small project in .NET6 that contains minimal APIs like that one
```
app.MapGet("/clients",
     async (IClientRepository repo) =>
     {
          var results = await repo.GetClientsAsync();
          return mapper.Map<IEnumerable<ClientModel>>(results);
     });
```

In the `SwaggerUI` I can use this API but I can't find a way to add description to it (although in the project settings I check for creating an API XML documentation).
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/DfCTU.png)
How can I add the XML comment?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To add XML comments to your API endpoints in .NET6, you need to follow these steps:

1. Enable XML documentation generation in your project settings. To do this, right-click on your project in the Solution Explorer, select "Properties", go to the "Build" tab, and check the "XML documentation file" option. By default, the XML file will be generated in the bin folder of your project.

2. Add XML comments to your API endpoint methods. To do this, place your cursor above the method declaration and type "///". This will generate an XML comment block that you can fill in with a description of the method and its parameters.

Here's an example:

```
/// <summary>
/// Gets a list of clients.
/// </summary>
/// <param name="repo">The client repository.</param>
/// <returns>A list of client models.</returns>
app.MapGet("/clients",
     async (IClientRepository repo) =>
     {
          var results = await repo.GetClientsAsync();
          return mapper.Map<IEnumerable<ClientModel>>(results);
     });
```

3. Build your project to generate the XML documentation file.

4. Configure Swagger to use the XML documentation file. To do this, add the following code to your `Startup.cs` file:

```
services.AddSwaggerGen(c =>
{
    c.IncludeXmlComments(Path.Combine(AppContext.BaseDirectory, "YourProjectName.xml"));
});
```

Replace "YourProjectName" with the name of your project.

5. Run your project and navigate to the Swagger UI. You should now see the XML comments displayed in the description section of your API endpoint.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To add XML comments to your API endpoints in .NET6, you need to follow these steps:

1. Enable XML documentation generation in your project settings. To do this, right-click on your project in the Solution Explorer, select Properties, and go to the Build tab. Under the Output section, check the "XML documentation file" option and specify a file name.

2. Add XML comments to your API endpoint methods. You can do this by placing triple-slash comments (///) above the method declaration and adding the appropriate tags to describe the method and its parameters. For example:

```
/// <summary>
/// Retrieves a list of clients from the repository.
/// </summary>
/// <param name="repo">The client repository to use.</param>
/// <returns>A list of client models.</returns>
app.MapGet("/clients",
     async (IClientRepository repo) =>
     {
          var results = await repo.GetClientsAsync();
          return mapper.Map<IEnumerable<ClientModel>>(results);
     });
```

3. Build your project to generate the XML documentation file.

4. Configure Swagger to use the XML documentation file. In your Startup.cs file, add the following code to the ConfigureServices method:

```
services.AddSwaggerGen(c =>
{
    c.IncludeXmlComments(Path.Combine(AppContext.BaseDirectory, "YourXmlFileName.xml"));
});
```

Replace "YourXmlFileName.xml" with the name of your XML documentation file.

5. Run your project and navigate to the Swagger UI. You should now see the XML comments displayed in the description section of your API endpoint.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To add XML comments to your API endpoints in .NET6, you need to follow these steps:

1. Enable XML documentation in your project settings. Right-click on your project in the Solution Explorer, select Properties, and go to the Build tab. Check the "XML documentation file" option and specify a file name.

2. Add XML comments to your API endpoints. In your code, add comments above your endpoint methods that describe the purpose and parameters of the endpoint. For example:

```
/// <summary>
/// Gets a list of clients.
/// </summary>
/// <param name="repo">The client repository.</param>
/// <returns>A list of client models.</returns>
app.MapGet("/clients",
     async (IClientRepository repo) =>
     {
          var results = await repo.GetClientsAsync();
          return mapper.Map<IEnumerable<ClientModel>>(results);
     });
```

3. Configure Swagger to use the XML comments. In your Startup.cs file, add the following code to the ConfigureServices method:

```
services.AddSwaggerGen(c =>
{
    c.IncludeXmlComments(Path.Combine(AppContext.BaseDirectory, "YourXmlFileName.xml"));
});
```

Replace "YourXmlFileName" with the name of the XML file you specified in step 1.

After following these steps, your API endpoints should have descriptions in the SwaggerUI.

--------
