
# Post \#61989581 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61989581/)

## Blazor - passing arguments to parent

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 11048 (405/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-419

Created at 2020-05-24 17:16:19

Tags: `c#` `asp.net` `razor` `blazor`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How to pass multiple arguments from child to parent upon onClick event in child component

Child Razor

```
@foreach( var item in items)
{
  @foreach( var score in item.scores)
  {
    <span @onclick="ItemClicked(item.name, score.id)"> 
      @item.name 
    </span>
  }
}
```


Parent Razor

```
<Child ItemClicked = "@ItemClicked"/>

@code{
 private void ItemClicked(string name, int id)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(name);
        Console.WriteLine(id);
    }
}
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Your approach is correct. You can pass multiple arguments from child to parent upon onClick event in child component by defining a method in the parent component and passing it as a parameter to the child component. In the child component, you can call the method with the required arguments using the @onclick directive.

In your example, you are passing two arguments, name and id, to the ItemClicked method in the parent component. In the parent component, you can define the ItemClicked method with the same signature as in the child component. When the user clicks on the span element in the child component, the ItemClicked method in the parent component will be called with the corresponding arguments.

Make sure that the types of the arguments in the child component and the parent component match. Also, ensure that the method name and parameter names are the same in both components.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Your approach is correct. You can pass multiple arguments from child to parent upon onClick event in child component by defining a delegate in the parent component and passing it as a parameter to the child component. In the child component, you can use the delegate to invoke the method in the parent component with the required arguments.

In your case, you have defined the delegate `ItemClicked` in the parent component and passed it as a parameter to the child component. In the child component, you have used the `@onclick` directive to invoke the `ItemClicked` delegate with the required arguments.

When the user clicks on the `span` element in the child component, the `ItemClicked` delegate is invoked with the `name` and `id` arguments. These arguments are then passed to the `ItemClicked` method in the parent component, where you can perform the required actions.

Your code looks good and should work as expected.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Your approach is correct. You can pass multiple arguments from child to parent upon onClick event in child component using the `EventCallback` delegate. Here's an updated version of your code:

Child Razor

```
@foreach( var item in items)
{
  @foreach( var score in item.scores)
  {
    <span @onclick="() => ItemClicked.InvokeAsync(item.name, score.id)"> 
      @item.name 
    </span>
  }
}

@code {
  [Parameter]
  public EventCallback<(string name, int id)> ItemClicked { get; set; }
}
```

Parent Razor

```
<Child ItemClicked="@((tuple) => ItemClicked(tuple.name, tuple.id))"/>

@code{
 private void ItemClicked(string name, int id)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(name);
        Console.WriteLine(id);
    }
}
```

In the child component, we define an `EventCallback` delegate that takes a tuple of `(string name, int id)` as an argument. We then pass this delegate to the `@onclick` event handler using a lambda expression that invokes the `InvokeAsync` method of the `EventCallback` delegate.

In the parent component, we pass a lambda expression to the `ItemClicked` parameter of the child component. This lambda expression takes a tuple as an argument and invokes the `ItemClicked` method of the parent component with the tuple's `name` and `id` properties.

--------
