
# Post \#59236834 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59236834/)

## How to disable "Attempting to reconnect to the server" message on ASP.NET Core producton server

**Vote**: 19 (269/702) **Views**: 17066 (333/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-417

Created at 2019-12-08 15:20:00

Tags: `c#` `asp.net-core` `razor-pages` `blazor-server-side` `asp.net-core-3.1`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an ASP.NET Core 3.1 C# razor pages application that also uses some Blazor-serverside razor components. I have published it to IIS on Windows 2008 R2 Server.
But when browsing the site in Chrome on one andorid mobile phone a message appears periodically:

> Attemting to reconnect to the server

Also when user stays inactive for a while, e.g. turns off the  mobile phone display, a message appears

> Disconnected from server. Reload page ...

The site is not in english and those generic messages are not good for end user exprience. Is there any way how to disable  those messages, or at least translate them to another language?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can customize the error messages that are displayed to the user when there is a connection issue with the server. 

In your Blazor component, you can add the following code to customize the error message:

```csharp
protected override void OnInitialized()
{
    base.OnInitialized();
    var hubConnection = new HubConnectionBuilder()
        .WithUrl(NavigationManager.ToAbsoluteUri("/myhub"))
        .Build();

    hubConnection.Closed += async (error) =>
    {
        await Task.Delay(new Random().Next(0, 5) * 1000);
        await hubConnection.StartAsync();
    };

    hubConnection.OnClose((exception) =>
    {
        // customize the error message here
        Console.WriteLine("Connection closed.");
    });

    hubConnection.StartAsync();
}
```

In the `OnClose` method, you can customize the error message to display to the user. You can also translate the message to another language if needed.

Additionally, you can disable the automatic reconnection attempts by removing the `hubConnection.Closed` event handler. This will prevent the "Attempting to reconnect to the server" message from appearing. However, keep in mind that this may result in a poor user experience if the user is disconnected from the server for an extended period of time.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can customize the error messages that are displayed to the user when the connection is lost or when the server is attempting to reconnect. 

To do this, you can modify the `Blazor.default.js` file that is included in your project. This file is located in the `wwwroot/_framework/blazor` folder.

Open the `Blazor.default.js` file and search for the following lines of code:

```javascript
reconnectDisplay: {
    show: function (message) {
        console.warn(message);
        var element = document.getElementById('blazor-error-ui');
        element.innerText = 'Attempting to reconnect to the server...';
        element.style.display = 'block';
    },
    hide: function () {
        var element = document.getElementById('blazor-error-ui');
        element.style.display = 'none';
    }
},
```

These lines of code control the display of the "Attempting to reconnect to the server" message. You can modify the text that is displayed by changing the following line:

```javascript
element.innerText = 'Attempting to reconnect to the server...';
```

You can also modify the `Disconnected from server. Reload page ...` message by searching for the following lines of code:

```javascript
disconnectedDisplay: {
    show: function (message) {
        console.warn(message);
        var element = document.getElementById('blazor-error-ui');
        element.innerText = 'Disconnected from server. Reload page to try again.';
        element.style.display = 'block';
    },
    hide: function () {
        var element = document.getElementById('blazor-error-ui');
        element.style.display = 'none';
    }
},
```

Again, you can modify the text that is displayed by changing the following line:

```javascript
element.innerText = 'Disconnected from server. Reload page to try again.';
```

You can also translate these messages to another language by replacing the English text with the translated text.

Once you have made your changes, save the `Blazor.default.js` file and publish your application again. The new error messages should now be displayed to the user.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can customize the error messages displayed by SignalR in your ASP.NET Core application. 

To disable the "Attempting to reconnect to the server" message, you can set the `reconnectInterval` option to a very high value or set it to `null` in your SignalR configuration. This will prevent SignalR from attempting to reconnect to the server.

To customize the "Disconnected from server. Reload page ..." message, you can handle the `onclose` event in your SignalR client code and display a custom message to the user. Here's an example:

```javascript
var connection = new signalR.HubConnectionBuilder()
    .withUrl("/chatHub")
    .build();

connection.onclose(function (error) {
    // Display a custom message to the user
    alert("You have been disconnected from the server. Please refresh the page to reconnect.");
});

connection.start();
```

You can also translate the error messages to another language by providing localized versions of the messages in your application's resource files. To do this, you can create a new resource file for the desired language and add the translated messages. Then, you can use the `ResourceManager` class to retrieve the appropriate message based on the user's language preference. Here's an example:

```csharp
// Get the localized error message
var errorMessage = Resources.DisconnectedFromServerMessage;

// Display the error message to the user
Response.Write(errorMessage);
```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
