
# Post \#42360139 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42360139/)

## ASP.NET Core return JSON with status code

**Vote**: 225 (16/702) **Views**: 502783 (6/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-403

Created at 2017-02-21 06:26:47

Tags: `c#` `json` `asp.net-core` `asp.net-core-webapi`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#` `json`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm looking for the correct way to return JSON with a HTTP status code in my .NET Core Web API controller. I use to use it like this:

```
public IHttpActionResult GetResourceData()
{
    return this.Content(HttpStatusCode.OK, new { response = "Hello"});
}
```


This was in a 4.6 MVC application but now with .NET Core I don't seem to have this `IHttpActionResult` I have `ActionResult` and using like this:

```
public ActionResult IsAuthenticated()
{
    return Ok(Json("123"));
}
```


But the response from the server is weird, as in the image below:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/DpSlo.png)

I just want the Web API controller to return JSON with a HTTP status code like I did in Web API 2.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In ASP.NET Core, you can return a JSON response with a status code using the `Ok` method for a 200 status code, or the `StatusCode` method for other status codes. Here's an example:

```csharp
public IActionResult GetResourceData()
{
    return Ok(new { response = "Hello" });
}
```

This will return a 200 status code with the JSON response `{"response":"Hello"}`.

If you want to return a different status code, you can use the `StatusCode` method:

```csharp
public IActionResult GetResourceData()
{
    return StatusCode(201, new { response = "Created" });
}
```

This will return a 201 status code with the JSON response `{"response":"Created"}`.

You don't need to use the `Json` method when returning a response with `Ok` or `StatusCode`, as these methods automatically serialize the object to JSON. The `Json` method is used when you want to return a JSON response directly, without any status code:

```csharp
public IActionResult GetResourceData()
{
    return Json(new { response = "Hello" });
}
```

This will return a 200 status code with the JSON response `{"response":"Hello"}`, just like the `Ok` method.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In .NET Core, you can return JSON with a HTTP status code using the `OkObjectResult` class, which is a type of `ActionResult`. Here's how you can do it:

```csharp
public IActionResult GetResourceData()
{
    return new OkObjectResult(new { response = "Hello" });
}
```

The `OkObjectResult` class automatically sets the HTTP status code to 200 OK, and the object you pass to its constructor will be serialized to JSON.

If you want to return a different HTTP status code, you can use the `StatusCode` method, like this:

```csharp
public IActionResult GetResourceData()
{
    return StatusCode(201, new { response = "Created" });
}
```

This will return a HTTP 201 status code (Created), along with the JSON object.

In your specific case, you don't need to use the `Json` method when returning the result. The `Ok` method will automatically serialize the object to JSON. So, you can simplify your `IsAuthenticated` method like this:

```csharp
public IActionResult IsAuthenticated()
{
    return Ok("123");
}
```

This will return a HTTP 200 OK status code, along with the string "123" serialized to JSON.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In .NET Core, you can use the `OkObjectResult` class to return a 200 OK status code along with your JSON data. Here's how you can do it:

```csharp
public IActionResult GetResourceData()
{
    return new OkObjectResult(new { response = "Hello" });
}
```

In this case, you don't need to use `Json()` method because `OkObjectResult` automatically serializes your object to JSON.

If you want to return a different HTTP status code, you can use the `StatusCode` method, like this:

```csharp
public IActionResult GetResourceData()
{
    return StatusCode(201, new { response = "Created" });
}
```

This will return a 201 Created status code along with your JSON data.

--------
