
# Post \#59118282 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59118282/)

## Nullable reference type in C#8 when using DTO classes with an ORM

**Vote**: 34 (179/702) **Views**: 21050 (294/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-413

Created at 2019-11-30 16:52:51

Tags: `c#` `orm` `dto` `c#-8.0` `nullable-reference-types`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I activated this feature in a project having data transfer object (DTO) classes, as given below:

```
public class Connection
    {
        public string ServiceUrl { get; set; }
        public string? UserName { get; set; }
        public string? Password { get; set; }
        //... others 
    }
```


But I get the error:

> `CS8618`: Non-nullable property 'ServiceUrl' is uninitialized. Consider declaring the property as nullable.

This is a DTO class, so I'm not initializing the properties. This will be the responsibility of the code initializing the class to ensure that the properties are non-null. 

For example, the caller can do:

```
var connection = new Connection
{
  ServiceUrl=some_value,
  //...
}
```


My question: How to handle such errors in DTO classes when C#8's nullability context is enabled?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

When C#8's nullability context is enabled, you need to explicitly mark the properties as nullable or non-nullable. In your case, you can mark the `ServiceUrl` property as non-nullable by adding the `!` symbol after the property type:

```
public string ServiceUrl { get; set; }!
```

This tells the compiler that the property is guaranteed to be non-null, and it will not generate the `CS8618` error.

Alternatively, you can initialize the property to a default value to avoid the error:

```
public string ServiceUrl { get; set; } = "";
```

This initializes the property to an empty string, which is a non-null value.

Note that if you mark a property as non-nullable, you must ensure that it is always initialized before it is used. Otherwise, you will get a runtime `NullReferenceException`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

When C#8's nullability context is enabled, you need to explicitly declare whether a property is nullable or not. In your case, the error is because the `ServiceUrl` property is not marked as nullable, but it is not initialized in the constructor or with a default value.

To fix this error, you can mark the `ServiceUrl` property as nullable by adding a `?` after the type declaration:

```
public string? ServiceUrl { get; set; }
```

This tells the compiler that the property can be null, and the error should go away.

Alternatively, you can initialize the property with a default value in the constructor:

```
public class Connection
{
    public Connection()
    {
        ServiceUrl = "";
    }

    public string ServiceUrl { get; set; }
    public string? UserName { get; set; }
    public string? Password { get; set; }
    //... others 
}
```

This initializes the `ServiceUrl` property with an empty string, which is a non-null value.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

When C#8's nullability context is enabled, you need to explicitly mark the properties as nullable or non-nullable using the `?` and `!` operators respectively. In your case, you can mark the `UserName` and `Password` properties as nullable using the `?` operator, but you need to mark the `ServiceUrl` property as non-nullable using the `!` operator. 

Here's how your code should look like:

```
public class Connection
{
    public string ServiceUrl { get; set; } = null!; // Non-nullable
    public string? UserName { get; set; } // Nullable
    public string? Password { get; set; } // Nullable
    //... others 
}
```

By using the `!` operator, you are telling the compiler that you guarantee that the `ServiceUrl` property will never be null. This will prevent the `CS8618` error from occurring.

--------
