
# Post \#61396213 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61396213/)

## Entity Framework - [Keyless] Data Annotation Missing

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 8824 (440/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-6-388

Created at 2020-04-23 20:16:04

Tags: `c#` `entity-framework-core` `data-annotations`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c#` (full parsed tag list: `c#`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

According with the Microsoft Documentation [Here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/modeling/keyless-entity-types?tabs=data-annotations), I should have access to the Attribute for [Keyless] so I can define my Model has Keyless, so that in my DBContext I could have something like:

```
public DbSet<MyKeylessClass> KeylessModel { get; set; }
```


And use `_context.KeylessModel.FromSqlRaw(...)`, without having the need to add a PK to it.
I have the reference to `System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations` and all the Attributes except Keyless are there, what am I missing here?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The `[Keyless]` attribute was introduced in Entity Framework Core 5.0. If you are using a version of Entity Framework Core prior to 5.0, you will not have access to this attribute.

To use the `[Keyless]` attribute, you need to make sure you are using Entity Framework Core 5.0 or later. You can check the version of Entity Framework Core you are using by looking at the version number of the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` package in your project's dependencies.

If you are using a version of Entity Framework Core prior to 5.0, you can still create keyless entities by defining them as regular entities with no primary key and using the `HasNoKey()` method in the `OnModelCreating` method of your `DbContext`. For example:

```
public class MyKeylessClass
{
    public string Property1 { get; set; }
    public int Property2 { get; set; }
}

public class MyDbContext : DbContext
{
    public DbSet<MyKeylessClass> KeylessModel { get; set; }

    protected override void OnModelCreating(ModelBuilder modelBuilder)
    {
        modelBuilder.Entity<MyKeylessClass>().HasNoKey();
    }
}
```

This will allow you to use `_context.KeylessModel.FromSqlRaw(...)` without having to add a primary key to your keyless entity.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `[Keyless]` attribute was introduced in Entity Framework Core 5.0, so make sure you are using EF Core 5.0 or later. If you are using an earlier version of EF Core, you will not have access to the `[Keyless]` attribute.

Also, make sure you have added the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` package version 5.0 or later to your project, as this is where the `[Keyless]` attribute is defined.

If you have confirmed that you are using EF Core 5.0 or later and have added the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` package, try cleaning and rebuilding your project to ensure that the attribute is properly recognized by your IDE.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The `[Keyless]` attribute was introduced in Entity Framework Core 5.0. If you are using a version of Entity Framework Core prior to 5.0, you will not have access to this attribute.

To use the `[Keyless]` attribute, you will need to upgrade to Entity Framework Core 5.0 or later. You can do this by updating the `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore` package in your project to version 5.0 or later.

Once you have upgraded to Entity Framework Core 5.0 or later, you should be able to use the `[Keyless]` attribute to define keyless entity types in your model.

--------
