
# Post \#70211690 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70211690/)

## New alternative for getDoctrine() in Symfony 5.4 and up

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 15544 (352/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-434

Created at 2021-12-03 08:54:01

Tags: `php` `symfony` `doctrine` `symfony5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

As my IDE points out, the `AbstractController::getDoctrine()` method is now deprecated.
I haven't found any reference for this deprecation neither in the official documentation nor in the Github changelog.
What is the new alternative or workaround for this shortcut?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `AbstractController::getDoctrine()` method is deprecated since Symfony 4.2. The alternative is to inject the Doctrine service into your controller methods.

Here's an example:

Before (with `AbstractController::getDoctrine()`):

```php
public function index()
{
    $em = $this->getDoctrine()->getManager();
    // ...
}
```

After (with dependency injection):

```php
use Doctrine\ORM\EntityManagerInterface;

public function index(EntityManagerInterface $em)
{
    // ...
}
```

In the new approach, you directly ask for the `EntityManagerInterface` service in the method where you need it, and Symfony will automatically inject it for you. This is a more explicit way of declaring your dependencies and it makes your code easier to test and more flexible.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `AbstractController::getDoctrine()` method is deprecated since Symfony 5.3. The new recommended way is to inject the `Doctrine\ORM\EntityManagerInterface` or `Doctrine\Persistence\ManagerRegistry` services directly into your controller or service.

Here is an example of how you can do this:

```php
use Doctrine\ORM\EntityManagerInterface;
use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\AbstractController;

class YourController extends AbstractController
{
    private $entityManager;

    public function __construct(EntityManagerInterface $entityManager)
    {
        $this->entityManager = $entityManager;
    }

    public function yourMethod()
    {
        // Use $this->entityManager instead of $this->getDoctrine()
        $this->entityManager->getRepository(YourEntity::class)->find($id);
    }
}
```

This way, you're directly using the `EntityManagerInterface` service, which is the recommended way since Symfony 5.3.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `AbstractController::getDoctrine()` method is deprecated since Symfony 4.2. The new recommended way is to inject the Doctrine service into your controller method.

Here's an example:

```php
use Doctrine\ORM\EntityManagerInterface;

public function yourMethod(EntityManagerInterface $em)
{
    $repository = $em->getRepository(YourEntity::class);
    // ...
}
```

In this example, `EntityManagerInterface` is the Doctrine service. The `$em` parameter is automatically injected with the Doctrine service (this is called autowiring).

This is part of Symfony's shift towards dependency injection, which makes your code more flexible and testable.

--------
