
# Post \#73605230 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73605230/)

## Composer error while Composer update in cpanel

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 569 (689/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-433

Created at 2022-09-05 06:20:34

Tags: `php` `laravel` `composer-php` `laravel-8`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a Laravel project in, which laravel version is 8.75 and php version is 7.4.
When I upload my project in cpanel and go to terminal and run 'composer update' command ,it shows this type of error. I search this error but couldn't find any solution.
$ composer update
Composer is operating significantly slower than normal because you do not have the PHP curl extension enabled.
Loading composer repositories with package information
[Composer\Downloader\TransportException]
The "https://repo.packagist.org/packages.json" file could not be downloaded: allow_url_fopen must be enabled in php.ini (https:// wrapper is disabled in the server configuration by allow_url_fopen=0
Failed to open stream: no suitable wrapper could be found)
update [--with WITH] [--prefer-source] [--prefer-dist] [--prefer-install PREFER-INSTALL] [--dry-run] [--dev] [--no-dev] [--lock] [--no-install] [--no-autoloader] [--no-suggest] [--no-progress] [-w|--with-dependencies] [-W|--with-all-dependencies] [-v|vv|vvv|--verbose] [-o|--optimize-autoloader] [-a|--classmap-authoritative] [--apcu-autoloader] [--apcu-autoloader-prefix APCU-AUTOLOADER-PREFIX] [--ignore-platform-req IGNORE-PLATFORM-REQ] [--ignore-platform-reqs] [--prefer-stable] [--prefer-lowest] [-i|--interactive] [--root-reqs] [--] []...
See this image :
[enter image description here](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Xh1rl.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that the PHP curl extension is not enabled on your server, and the allow_url_fopen setting is disabled in your php.ini file. 

To fix this issue, you need to enable the PHP curl extension and allow_url_fopen setting in your php.ini file. 

Here are the steps to enable the PHP curl extension and allow_url_fopen setting:

1. Login to your cPanel account and go to the "Select PHP Version" option under the "Software" section.

2. Click on the "Switch to PHP Options" button.

3. Find the "curl" and "allow_url_fopen" options and set them to "On".

4. Click on the "Save" button to save the changes.

5. Restart the Apache server.

After completing these steps, try running the "composer update" command again. It should work without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the PHP curl extension is not enabled on your server, and that the allow_url_fopen setting is disabled in your php.ini file. 

To resolve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Enable the PHP curl extension: 
   - Login to your cPanel account and go to the "Select PHP Version" option.
   - Click on the "curl" extension to enable it.
   - Save the changes.

2. Enable allow_url_fopen in php.ini file:
   - Login to your cPanel account and go to the "Select PHP Version" option.
   - Click on the "Switch to PHP Options" button.
   - Find the "allow_url_fopen" option and set it to "On".
   - Save the changes.

3. Restart the Apache server:
   - Go to the "Restart Services" option in cPanel.
   - Click on the "Restart Apache" button.

After completing these steps, try running the "composer update" command again and see if the issue is resolved.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the PHP curl extension is not enabled on your server, which is causing Composer to operate slower than normal. Additionally, the error message suggests that the "https://repo.packagist.org/packages.json" file could not be downloaded because the "allow_url_fopen" setting is disabled in your php.ini file.

To resolve this issue, you need to enable the PHP curl extension and allow_url_fopen setting in your php.ini file. Here are the steps to do that:

1. Login to your cPanel account and navigate to the "Select PHP Version" option.
2. Click on the "Switch to PHP Options" button.
3. Find the "curl" and "allow_url_fopen" options and set them to "On".
4. Save the changes and exit the PHP Options screen.
5. Run the "composer update" command again in the terminal.

This should resolve the issue and allow Composer to operate normally. If you continue to experience issues, you may need to contact your hosting provider for further assistance.

--------
