
# Post \#52231248 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52231248/)

## Laravel showing "Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions"

**Vote**: 139 (36/702) **Views**: 181042 (43/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-424

Created at 2018-09-08 01:34:29

Tags: `laravel` `composer-php`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Laravel was displaying to me "Access denied for user 'homestead'@'localhost' (using password: YES)". One solution for this was clearing the cache and the config cache stored, all this with these three commands:

```
php artisan cache:clear
php artisan config:clear
php artisan config:cache
```


After `php artisan cache:clear`, terminal says:

`Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions.` (with red background)

Doing the second and third code (`php artisan config:clear` and `php artisan config:cache`) works fine! But it still gives me the error when typing the first line. Can anyone explain why? 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message "Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions." suggests that the user running the `php artisan cache:clear` command does not have the necessary permissions to delete the files in the cache directory.

This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The user running the command does not own the files in the cache directory.
2. The files in the cache directory are not writable by the user running the command.
3. The cache directory itself is not writable by the user running the command.

To resolve this issue, you need to ensure that the user running the command has the necessary permissions to delete the files in the cache directory. This can usually be achieved by changing the ownership of the files and/or changing the permissions of the files.

Here are some commands that might help:

- To change the ownership of the files, you can use the `chown` command. For example, if the user running the command is `user1` and the cache directory is located at `/path/to/cache`, you can run `sudo chown -R user1 /path/to/cache`.

- To change the permissions of the files, you can use the `chmod` command. For example, to make the files in the cache directory writable by the user, you can run `sudo chmod -R u+w /path/to/cache`.

Please replace `user1` and `/path/to/cache` with your actual username and the path to your cache directory.

Remember to be careful when changing file ownership and permissions, as incorrect settings can potentially lead to security issues.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message "Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions" suggests that the user running the `php artisan cache:clear` command doesn't have the necessary permissions to modify the files in the cache directory.

This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The user running the command is not the owner of the files/directories. This can happen if the cache files were created by a different user or system process.

2. The file permissions are set in such a way that the user running the command doesn't have write access to the files/directories. This can happen if the permissions were changed manually or by a system process.

To fix this, you need to change the ownership and/or permissions of the cache files/directories to allow the user running the command to modify them. You can do this using the `chown` and `chmod` commands in the terminal.

For example, if your cache directory is located at `/path/to/your/project/bootstrap/cache`, you can change the ownership to the current user with the following command:

```bash
sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /path/to/your/project/bootstrap/cache
```

And then give the current user write permissions with the following command:

```bash
sudo chmod -R 755 /path/to/your/project/bootstrap/cache
```

Please replace `/path/to/your/project` with the actual path to your Laravel project.

After running these commands, try running `php artisan cache:clear` again and see if it works. If not, there might be other issues at play, such as problems with your Laravel or server configuration.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing typically indicates that the user running the `php artisan cache:clear` command doesn't have the necessary permissions to delete the files in the cache directory.

Laravel stores its cache files in the `bootstrap/cache/` directory. If the user running the command doesn't have write permissions for this directory, Laravel won't be able to delete the cache files and you'll see the error message you described.

Here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Check the permissions on the `bootstrap/cache/` directory. You can do this by running `ls -la bootstrap/cache/` from the root directory of your Laravel project. The user running the `php artisan cache:clear` command needs to have write permissions for this directory.

2. If the permissions are incorrect, you can change them using the `chmod` command. For example, `chmod -R 755 bootstrap/cache/` will give the owner of the files read, write, and execute permissions, and everyone else read and execute permissions.

3. If you're not sure which user is running the command, you can find out by running `whoami` in the terminal.

4. If the user running the command is not the owner of the files, you can change the owner using the `chown` command. For example, `chown -R user:group bootstrap/cache/` will change the owner of the files to `user` and the group to `group`.

5. If you're running the command as a superuser or with sudo, make sure that the user has the necessary sudo privileges.

Remember to replace `user:group` with the actual username and groupname that you're using in your system.

--------
