
# Post \#69218666 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69218666/)

## Doctrine Migration class not found error when attempting to run down/rollback command

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 6566 (490/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-438

Created at 2021-09-17 06:25:42

Tags: `php` `symfony` `doctrine-orm` `doctrine` `doctrine-migrations`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When I run `bin/console doctrine:migrations:list` I see the Migration listed as:
`Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642`
I am attempting to rollback a migration and I have tried a few different versions:
```
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 'Application\DoctrineMigrations\Version20210909072642' --down --no-interaction -vvv
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute Version20210909072642 --down --no-interaction -vvv
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 20210909072642 --down --no-interaction -vvv
```

Has this feature changed with a recent [DoctrineMigrationsBundle](https://symfony.com/bundles/DoctrineMigrationsBundle/current/index.html) update?
Every time I run it I get the following error:
```
In MigrationClassNotFound.php line 15:
                                                          
  [Doctrine\Migrations\Exception\MigrationClassNotFound]  
  Migration class "20210909072642" was not found?
```

My Doctrine config looks like this:
```
doctrine_migrations:
    migrations_paths:
        'Application\Migrations': 'app/DoctrineMigrations'
    storage:
        table_storage:
            table_name: 'migration_versions'
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that Doctrine cannot find the migration class you're trying to execute. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The migration class does not exist: Ensure that the migration class `Version20210909072642` exists in the `app/DoctrineMigrations` directory.

2. The namespace is incorrect: The namespace in the command should match the namespace in the migration file. In your case, it should be `Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642`.

3. The migration version is not registered: If the migration version is not registered in the `migration_versions` table, Doctrine will not be able to find it. You can check this by querying the table.

If all the above checks out, the command to execute the migration should be:

```bash
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 'Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642' --down --no-interaction -vvv
```

If you're still having issues, it could be a problem with the DoctrineMigrationsBundle version. You might want to check the [official documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/bundles/DoctrineMigrationsBundle/index.html) or the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/doctrine/DoctrineMigrationsBundle) for any recent changes or issues.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that Doctrine can't find the migration class you're trying to execute. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The migration class does not exist: Make sure the migration file `Version20210909072642.php` exists in the `app/DoctrineMigrations` directory.

2. The namespace is incorrect: The namespace in the migration file should match the one specified in the `migrations_paths` configuration. In your case, it should be `Application\Migrations`.

3. The migration class name is incorrect: The class name in the migration file should be `Version20210909072642`.

If all the above conditions are met and you're still facing the issue, it could be due to a caching issue. Try clearing the cache using the command `bin/console cache:clear`.

If you're still facing the issue, you can try to execute the migration using the full namespace and class name:

```bash
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 'Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642' --down --no-interaction -vvv
```

If none of the above solutions work, it's possible that there's a bug in the version of DoctrineMigrationsBundle you're using. You could try updating it to the latest version or downgrading to a previous version.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the migration class "20210909072642" was not found. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The migration class does not exist in the specified path.
2. The migration class exists but is not named correctly.
3. The migration class exists and is named correctly, but the namespace is incorrect.

Based on your Doctrine configuration, your migrations are located in the 'app/DoctrineMigrations' directory and the namespace for your migrations is 'Application\Migrations'. Therefore, the migration class should be located at 'app/DoctrineMigrations/Version20210909072642.php' and the class should be named 'Version20210909072642' with the namespace 'Application\Migrations'.

To execute a migration, you should use the version number only, without the namespace. So your command should look like this:

```bash
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 20210909072642 --down --no-interaction -vvv
```

If you're still having issues, check the following:

1. Make sure the 'app/DoctrineMigrations/Version20210909072642.php' file exists.
2. Open the 'app/DoctrineMigrations/Version20210909072642.php' file and make sure the class is named 'Version20210909072642' and the namespace is 'Application\Migrations'.
3. Clear the cache using the command `bin/console cache:clear`. Sometimes the cache can cause issues with finding the migration classes.
4. Make sure you have installed all the necessary dependencies and that the DoctrineMigrationsBundle is correctly configured.

If none of the above solutions work, it might be a bug in the DoctrineMigrationsBundle. In this case, you should report the issue to the Doctrine project.

--------
