
# Post \#68030588 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68030588/)

## Xdebug failed install on Mac m1

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 6417 (495/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-446

Created at 2021-06-18 06:50:53

Tags: `php` `xdebug`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to install Xdebug on my Mac m1, I followed this page([https://xdebug.org/docs/install](https://xdebug.org/docs/install)) to install. This is the step I followed:
step1 => go to cmd: arch -x86_64 sudo pecl install xdebug
step2 => go to php.ini delete this line of code
```
zend_extension="xdebug.so"
```

step3 => go to php.ini add this
```
[xdebug]
zend_extension=/opt/homebrew/lib/php/pecl/20190902/xdebug.so
xdebug.mode=debug
xdebug.client_host=127.0.0.1
xdebug.client_port="9003"
```

step4 => go to cmd: php -v

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Kd87U.png)



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It looks like you have successfully installed Xdebug on your Mac m1. To confirm that Xdebug is installed and working properly, you can create a PHP file with the following code:

```
<?php
phpinfo();
?>
```

Save the file as `info.php` in your web server's document root directory (e.g. `/Library/WebServer/Documents/`), and then access the file in your web browser by going to `http://localhost/info.php`. This should display a page with information about your PHP installation, including a section on Xdebug if it is installed correctly.

You can also test Xdebug by setting a breakpoint in your PHP code and using a debugging client like VS Code or PhpStorm to step through the code and inspect variables.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like you have successfully installed Xdebug on your Mac m1. To confirm that Xdebug is installed and enabled, you can run the following command in your terminal:

```
php -m | grep xdebug
```

If Xdebug is installed and enabled, you should see "xdebug" listed in the output. 

You can also test Xdebug by setting a breakpoint in your code and using a debugging client like VS Code or PhpStorm to step through your code.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like you have successfully installed Xdebug on your Mac M1. To confirm that Xdebug is installed and working correctly, you can create a PHP file with the following code:

```
<?php
phpinfo();
?>
```

Save the file as `info.php` in your web server's document root directory (e.g., `/Library/WebServer/Documents/`), and then open it in your web browser by going to `http://localhost/info.php`.

You should see a page with information about your PHP installation. Look for the "Xdebug" section to confirm that Xdebug is listed and enabled. If it is, then Xdebug is installed and working correctly.

--------
