
# Post \#41209349 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41209349/)

## require(vendor/autoload.php): failed to open stream

**Vote**: 254 (9/702) **Views**: 1003817 (1/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-442

Created at 2016-12-18 14:33:50

Tags: `php` `email` `composer-php` `phpmailer`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I know that this issue has been posted many times, but for me it seems to be a different problem.
Indeed, this error
> Warning: require(vendor/autoload.php): failed to open stream: No such file or directory in C:\xampp\htdocs\site_web\send_mail.php on line 3Fatal error: require(): Failed opening required 'vendor/autoload.php' (include_path='C:\xampp\php\PEAR') in C:\xampp\htdocs\site_web\send_mail.php on line 3
appears at the begining of my code from this line:
```
require 'vendor/autoload.php';
```

So, I guess there must be a /vendor/autoload.php file somewhere in my computer (I have installed composer and ran `composer require phpmailer/phpmailer`).
So, I looked for this file using: `dir /s autoload.php` in the Windows command line, and found one here: `C:\Windows\SysWOW64\vendor\autoload.php`,
but for me,  folder has nothing to see with , I don't see what I am missing here.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is because PHP can't find the file `vendor/autoload.php` in the current directory where your `send_mail.php` script is running.

The `vendor/autoload.php` file is generated by Composer. It's not something that would be installed globally on your system, but rather it's specific to each project you're working on.

When you run `composer require phpmailer/phpmailer`, Composer should create the `vendor` directory and the `autoload.php` file in the same directory where you ran the command.

Here are some steps to troubleshoot:

1. Make sure you're running the `composer require phpmailer/phpmailer` command in the root directory of your project (the same directory where your `send_mail.php` file is).

2. After running the `composer require` command, check if the `vendor` directory and the `autoload.php` file exist in your project directory. If they don't, there might be a problem with your Composer installation.

3. Make sure your `send_mail.php` script is in the correct directory and that the path to the `vendor/autoload.php` file is correct. The require statement is looking for the `vendor/autoload.php` file in the same directory where the script is running.

4. If you're still having trouble, you might want to try uninstalling and reinstalling Composer. There might be a problem with your Composer installation that's preventing it from creating the `vendor` directory and the `autoload.php` file.

Remember, the `vendor/autoload.php` file is not something that should be moved around or copied to different directories. It's generated by Composer and should stay in the directory where it was created.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is because PHP can't find the `vendor/autoload.php` file. This file is generated by Composer when you install dependencies for your project. 

Here's how you can solve this issue:

1. Open your terminal and navigate to your project directory (`C:\xampp\htdocs\site_web`).

2. Run `composer install` or `composer update`. This will install or update the dependencies defined in your `composer.json` file and generate the `vendor` directory and the `autoload.php` file.

3. Make sure your `require 'vendor/autoload.php';` line is correct. It should be relative to the file where this line is written. If the script with this line is in the root of your project, then it should work fine.

If you've already run `composer require phpmailer/phpmailer` in your project directory, the `vendor/autoload.php` file should be in your project directory (`C:\xampp\htdocs\site_web`), not in `C:\Windows\SysWOW64\vendor\`.

The `vendor/autoload.php` in `C:\Windows\SysWOW64\vendor\` is likely for a different project or a global Composer installation, and should not be used for your project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're seeing is because PHP is unable to find the `vendor/autoload.php` file in your project directory. The `vendor/autoload.php` file is generated by Composer when you install dependencies for your project.

Here are some steps you can follow to resolve this issue:

1. Open your command line and navigate to your project directory (`C:\xampp\htdocs\site_web`).

2. Run the command `composer install` or `composer update`. This will install or update all the dependencies defined in your `composer.json` file and generate the `vendor/autoload.php` file.

3. If you don't have a `composer.json` file in your project directory, you need to create one. You can do this by running `composer init` and following the prompts. After creating the `composer.json` file, you can add PHPMailer as a dependency by running `composer require phpmailer/phpmailer`.

4. After running these commands, check your project directory for the `vendor` folder. Inside this folder, you should see the `autoload.php` file.

5. Now, in your `send_mail.php` file, you can require the `vendor/autoload.php` file like this:

```php
require __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';
```

This line of code will include the `vendor/autoload.php` file from the same directory where your `send_mail.php` file is located.

Remember, the `vendor/autoload.php` file should not be moved or edited manually. It is automatically generated and managed by Composer. If you move or edit this file manually, you might break the autoloading of your dependencies.

--------
