
# Post \#60841930 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60841930/)

## Laravel 6-7 How Can I Override/Change a Vendor Class?

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 12997 (382/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-449

Created at 2020-03-25 01:47:38

Tags: `php` `laravel` `composer-php` `laravel-6` `laravel-7`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I recently ran into a problem where I need to change one of Laravel's vendor files to get a desired result.
That file is `vendor/laravel/framework/Illuminate/Routing/CompileRouteCollection.php`.

Inside that file, a function needs to be changed.

```
protected function requestWithoutTrailingSlash(Request $request)
{
    $trimmedRequest = Request::createFromBase($request);

    $parts = explode('?', $request->server->get('REQUEST_URI'), 2);

    $trimmedRequest->server->set(
        'REQUEST_URI', rtrim($parts[0], '/').(isset($parts[1]) ? '?'.$parts[1] : '')
    );

    return $trimmedRequest;
}
```


More specifically, this part: `rtrim($parts[0], '/')`. That / at the end needs to be removed in order for parts of my routes to work.

I have tried creating my own custom class inside: `App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection.php`. In which I copy the function listed above and make my own changes.

App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection.php

```
namespace App\Helpers;

use Illuminate\Http\Request;

class CompiledRouteCollection extends \Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection
{
    protected function requestWithoutTrailingSlash(Request $request)
    {
        $trimmedRequest = Request::createFromBase($request);

        $parts = explode('?', $request->server->get('REQUEST_URI'), 2);

        $trimmedRequest->server->set(
            'REQUEST_URI', rtrim($parts[0], '').(isset($parts[1]) ? '?'.$parts[1] : '')
        );

        return $trimmedRequest;
    }
}
```


Then I go into App\Providers\AppServiceProvider and I run this inside of the register function.

```
public function register()
{
    $loader = AliasLoader::getInstance();
    $loader->alias('App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection', 'Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection');
}
```


But nothing happens.



I changed my alias to this:

```
$loader = AliasLoader::getInstance();
$loader->alias('Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection', 'App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection');
```


But now in my Helper class it returns this error when trying to access any page:
`Class 'Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection' not found`

To anyone who is interested in helping me out thank you so much. If you need more information please let me know!

If you need more context I opened up an issue on laravel/framework that has the full background explanation [here](https://github.com/laravel/framework/issues/32082)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Modifying vendor files directly is not recommended because your changes will be lost when you update the package. Instead, you should extend the class and override the method you want to change. 

However, in your case, it seems like you're trying to override a class that is not being resolved out of the container, which is why your alias isn't working. 

The `CompiledRouteCollection` class is not a service that is bound to the service container, so you can't swap it out using an alias in the `AppServiceProvider`. 

Unfortunately, Laravel's routing component doesn't provide an easy way to swap out the `CompiledRouteCollection` class. You might need to extend or override a larger part of the routing component to achieve this.

Another approach could be to handle this at the web server level. For example, if you're using Apache, you could use mod_rewrite to remove the trailing slash before the request even hits your Laravel application.

If you're trying to remove trailing slashes from URLs, you might consider handling this in middleware instead. Here's a simple example:

```php
namespace App\Http\Middleware;

use Illuminate\Http\Request;
use Closure;

class TrimTrailingSlash
{
    public function handle(Request $request, Closure $next)
    {
        if (preg_match('/.+\/$/', $request->getRequestUri())) {
            return redirect(rtrim($request->getRequestUri(), '/'), 301);
        }

        return $next($request);
    }
}
```

This middleware will permanently redirect any URLs with a trailing slash to the same URL without the trailing slash. You can add this middleware to your global middleware stack in the `app/Http/Kernel.php` file. 

Remember, it's always better to avoid modifying vendor files directly. Try to find a solution that works within the framework's intended extension points.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Modifying vendor files directly is not recommended because your changes will be lost when you update the package. Instead, you should override the specific functionality you need to change.

In your case, you're trying to override a method in the `CompiledRouteCollection` class. However, this class is not bound in the Laravel service container, so you can't simply swap it out with your own version.

Instead, you might need to extend the `Router` class and override the method that creates the `CompiledRouteCollection` instance, so that it uses your custom class instead. Then you can bind your custom router in the service container.

Here's an example of how you might do this:

1. Create your custom `CompiledRouteCollection` class:

```php
namespace App\Helpers;

use Illuminate\Http\Request;

class CompiledRouteCollection extends \Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection
{
    protected function requestWithoutTrailingSlash(Request $request)
    {
        $trimmedRequest = Request::createFromBase($request);

        $parts = explode('?', $request->server->get('REQUEST_URI'), 2);

        $trimmedRequest->server->set(
            'REQUEST_URI', rtrim($parts[0], '').(isset($parts[1]) ? '?'.$parts[1] : '')
        );

        return $trimmedRequest;
    }
}
```

2. Create a custom `Router` class that uses your `CompiledRouteCollection`:

```php
namespace App\Helpers;

use Illuminate\Routing\Router as BaseRouter;

class Router extends BaseRouter
{
    protected function compileRoutes()
    {
        foreach ($this->routes as $domain => $routes) {
            foreach ($routes as $uri => $route) {
                $this->compiledRoutes[$domain][$uri] = new CompiledRouteCollection($route);
            }
        }
    }
}
```

3. Bind your custom `Router` in your `AppServiceProvider`:

```php
public function register()
{
    $this->app->singleton('router', function ($app) {
        return new \App\Helpers\Router($app['events'], $app);
    });
}
```

Please note that this is a simplified example and might not work out of the box, depending on your specific use case and Laravel version. You might need to adjust it to fit your needs.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Modifying vendor files directly is not recommended because your changes will be lost when you update the package. Instead, you should override the specific functionality you need to change.

However, in your case, it seems like you're trying to override a class that is not bound in the Laravel's service container, hence the aliasing is not working. Laravel's AliasLoader is used for facades, not for swapping out core classes.

A better approach would be to extend the `Router` class and override the `createRouteCollection` method to return your own `CompiledRouteCollection` class. Then, you can bind your custom router in a service provider.

Here's an example of how you can do this:

1. Create your custom router:

```php
namespace App\Routing;

use Illuminate\Routing\Router as BaseRouter;

class Router extends BaseRouter
{
    protected function createRouteCollection()
    {
        return new \App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection;
    }
}
```

2. Bind your custom router in a service provider:

```php
namespace App\Providers;

use Illuminate\Support\ServiceProvider;
use App\Routing\Router;

class AppServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider
{
    public function register()
    {
        $this->app->singleton('router', function ($app) {
            return new Router($app['events'], $app);
        });
    }
}
```

This way, Laravel will use your custom router and your custom `CompiledRouteCollection` class. Make sure to clear the cache (`php artisan cache:clear` and `php artisan config:clear`) after making these changes.

Please note that this is a workaround and it might not be the best solution. It's always better to avoid modifying core classes if possible. If you're having issues with routing, there might be a better solution that doesn't involve modifying the core classes.

--------
