
# Post \#69218666 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69218666/)

## Doctrine Migration class not found error when attempting to run down/rollback command

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 6566 (490/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-438

Created at 2021-09-17 06:25:42

Tags: `php` `symfony` `doctrine-orm` `doctrine` `doctrine-migrations`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When I run `bin/console doctrine:migrations:list` I see the Migration listed as:
`Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642`
I am attempting to rollback a migration and I have tried a few different versions:
```
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 'Application\DoctrineMigrations\Version20210909072642' --down --no-interaction -vvv
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute Version20210909072642 --down --no-interaction -vvv
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 20210909072642 --down --no-interaction -vvv
```

Has this feature changed with a recent [DoctrineMigrationsBundle](https://symfony.com/bundles/DoctrineMigrationsBundle/current/index.html) update?
Every time I run it I get the following error:
```
In MigrationClassNotFound.php line 15:
                                                          
  [Doctrine\Migrations\Exception\MigrationClassNotFound]  
  Migration class "20210909072642" was not found?
```

My Doctrine config looks like this:
```
doctrine_migrations:
    migrations_paths:
        'Application\Migrations': 'app/DoctrineMigrations'
    storage:
        table_storage:
            table_name: 'migration_versions'
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It looks like you are using the correct format for specifying the migration version in the `doctrine:migrations:execute` command. However, you may need to specify the full namespace of the migration class, including the `Application\Migrations` namespace.

Try running the command like this:
```
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 'Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642' --down --no-interaction -vvv
```

If that doesn't work, you can try running the `doctrine:migrations:status` command to see a list of all available migrations and their versions. This should help you determine the correct version to use in the `execute` command.

```
bin/console doctrine:migrations:status
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like you are using the correct format for rolling back a migration, but the error message suggests that DoctrineMigrationsBundle is not able to find the migration class.

One possible reason for this could be that the namespace of the migration class is not correct. In your `doctrine_migrations` configuration, you have specified the migrations path as `'Application\Migrations': 'app/DoctrineMigrations'`. This means that the namespace for your migration classes should be `Application\Migrations`.

Based on the name of the migration class (`Version20210909072642`), it seems like the namespace should be `Application\Migrations`. However, in your rollback commands, you are using different namespaces (`Application\DoctrineMigrations` and `Version20210909072642`). This could be causing the class not to be found.

To fix this, try running the rollback command with the correct namespace:

```
bin/console --env=dev doctrine:migrations:execute 'Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642' --down --no-interaction -vvv
```

This should locate the migration class and execute the rollback.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like you are using the correct format for specifying the migration version in the `doctrine:migrations:execute` command. However, you may need to double-check that the migration class exists in the specified migrations path.

In your case, the migration class is `Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642`, so you can try running the following command to rollback the migration:

```
bin/console doctrine:migrations:execute 'Application\Migrations\Version20210909072642' --down --no-interaction -vvv
```

If you still encounter the `MigrationClassNotFound` error, you can try running the `doctrine:migrations:status` command to see if the migration is listed as "available" or "executed". If it is listed as "executed", you can use the `doctrine:migrations:execute` command with the `--up` option to re-execute the migration and then use the `--down` option to rollback the migration.

If the migration is not listed at all, you may need to double-check that the migrations path is correctly configured in your `doctrine_migrations` configuration.

--------
