
# Post \#56219962 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56219962/)

## Composer require ext-zip fails

**Vote**: 25 (228/702) **Views**: 43371 (184/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-439

Created at 2019-05-20 11:21:02

Tags: `php` `composer-php` `phpstorm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am told by PHPStorm that I need to composer require ext-zip, however, that command is failing...

PHPStorm says

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Ir6Qy.png)

The command I am issuing is

```
composer require ext-zip
```


results in

```
Your requirements could not be resolved to an installable set of packages.
```


and

```
Installation failed, reverting ./composer.json to its original content.
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the `ext-zip` extension is not available or installed on your system. 

You can try installing the extension manually by following the steps below:

1. Find out which version of PHP you are using by running the command `php -v` in your terminal.
2. Download the appropriate version of the `ext-zip` extension from the official PHP website. Make sure to download the version that matches your PHP version.
3. Extract the downloaded file and copy the `zip.so` file to the PHP extensions directory. You can find the location of the extensions directory by running the command `php --ini` in your terminal. Look for the line that says "Loaded Configuration File" and then find the "extension_dir" value in that file.
4. Add the `zip.so` extension to your `php.ini` file. You can do this by adding the following line to your `php.ini` file: `extension=zip.so`
5. Restart your web server or PHP-FPM service.

After completing these steps, try running the `composer require ext-zip` command again and see if it works.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that Composer was unable to install the `ext-zip` extension. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as a missing dependency or an incompatible version of the extension.

Here are some steps you can take to troubleshoot the issue:

1. Check your PHP version: Make sure that your PHP version is compatible with the `ext-zip` extension. You can check the required PHP version in the extension's documentation.

2. Check your system requirements: Ensure that your system meets all the requirements for installing the `ext-zip` extension. For example, you may need to install additional libraries or dependencies.

3. Check your Composer configuration: Check your Composer configuration to make sure that it is set up correctly. You can try running `composer diagnose` to check for any issues.

4. Try installing a different version: If the latest version of the `ext-zip` extension is not compatible with your system, try installing an older version instead. You can specify the version number in the `composer require` command, like this: `composer require ext-zip:1.2.3`.

5. Check for conflicts: Check if there are any conflicts with other packages or extensions that you have installed. You can try running `composer why-not ext-zip` to see if there are any conflicts.

If none of these steps work, you may need to seek further assistance from the PHP community or the extension's developers.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message suggests that Composer is unable to find a compatible version of the `ext-zip` package that can be installed in your project. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. Your PHP version may not support the `ext-zip` package. Check that your PHP version is compatible with the package by running `php -m | grep zip` in your terminal. If the output is empty, it means that the package is not installed or enabled in your PHP installation.

2. Your Composer dependencies may have conflicts. Try running `composer update` to update your dependencies and resolve any conflicts.

3. Your Composer cache may be corrupted. Try running `composer clear-cache` to clear your Composer cache and then run `composer require ext-zip` again.

If none of these solutions work, you may need to manually install the `ext-zip` package on your system or contact your hosting provider for assistance.

--------
