
# Post \#59131764 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59131764/)

## Laravel error when sending custom email address using smtp server

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 20674 (299/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-427

Created at 2019-12-02 02:03:56

Tags: `php` `laravel` `email` `smtp`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a project that has a module that sends email from request. Im using beautymail package for the email template. I can send an email using a gmail account, but there is this email that I get from my client that has a custome email address in it. Like this xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg, they said that the email is a smtp server. So I tried configuring my `.env` and other configuration files in laravel. But I get this error upon sending `Connection could not be established with host mail.propnex.sg :stream_socket_client(): SSL operation failed with code 1. OpenSSL Error messages: error:1408F10B:SSL routines:ssl3_get_record:wrong version number` Could someone tell me why Im getting this error and what should I do to get rid of this? Thanks a lot

.env config

```
MAIL_DRIVER=smtp
MAIL_HOST=mail.propnex.sg
MAIL_PORT=587
MAIL_USERNAME=xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg
MAIL_PASSWORD=xxxxxxxx
MAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl
```


Mail.php

```
'from' => [
        'address' => 'xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg',
        'name' => 'Propnex',
    ],

    'reply_to' => ['address' => 'xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg', 'name' => 'Propnex'],

    'encryption' => env('MAIL_ENCRYPTION', 'tls'),


    'username' => env('MAIL_USERNAME'),

    'password' => env('MAIL_PASSWORD'),

    'port' => env('MAIL_PORT', 587),

    'driver' => env('MAIL_DRIVER', 'smtp'),

    'host' => env('MAIL_HOST', 'mail.propnex.sg'),
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is related to the SSL encryption method you're using to connect to the SMTP server. The error `ssl3_get_record:wrong version number` suggests that the server doesn't support the SSL version you're trying to use.

In your `.env` file, you're using `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl`, but in your `mail.php` configuration file, you're using `'encryption' => env('MAIL_ENCRYPTION', 'tls')`. This means that if `MAIL_ENCRYPTION` is not set in your `.env` file, it will default to `tls`.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Change the encryption method to TLS**: In your `.env` file, change `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl` to `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=tls`. Then, clear the configuration cache by running `php artisan config:clear` in your terminal.

2. **Use a different port**: Port 587 is typically used for `tls`, while port 465 is typically used for `ssl`. If you're using `ssl`, try changing `MAIL_PORT=587` to `MAIL_PORT=465` in your `.env` file.

3. **Check with your client**: They may have specific requirements for connecting to their SMTP server, such as a specific SSL version or a different port. They may also require you to add your server's IP address to a whitelist.

4. **Disable SSL verification**: This is not recommended for production environments, as it can make your connections insecure. However, for testing purposes, you can disable SSL verification by adding `'stream' => ['ssl' => ['allow_self_signed' => true, 'verify_peer' => false, 'verify_peer_name' => false]]` to your `mail.php` configuration file.

Remember to clear your configuration cache after making any changes to your `.env` or configuration files. You can do this by running `php artisan config:clear` in your terminal.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is typically related to a mismatch between the encryption type you're using and what the server is expecting. 

In your `.env` file, you've set `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl`, but in your `mail.php` file, you're defaulting to `tls` if the `MAIL_ENCRYPTION` environment variable isn't set. 

The port number you're using, 587, is typically used for `tls` encryption, not `ssl`. 

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Change `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl` to `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=tls` in your `.env` file. 

2. If that doesn't work, try changing `MAIL_PORT=587` to `MAIL_PORT=465` in your `.env` file. Port 465 is typically used for `ssl` encryption.

3. If neither of those work, it's possible that the server is expecting a different type of encryption or no encryption at all. You might try setting `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=null` in your `.env` file.

Remember to clear the config cache each time you make changes to your `.env` file. You can do this with the command `php artisan config:cache`.

If none of these suggestions work, you may need to contact the email server administrator or the hosting provider for more specific information about the type of encryption and port number they're using.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is usually due to a mismatch between the encryption type specified in your configuration and what the SMTP server actually supports. 

In your `.env` file, you've specified `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl`, but in your `mail.php` configuration file, you've specified `'encryption' => env('MAIL_ENCRYPTION', 'tls')`. This means that if `MAIL_ENCRYPTION` is not set in your `.env` file, it will default to `'tls'`.

The port number you're using, 587, is typically used for TLS encryption, not SSL. 

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Change `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl` in your `.env` file to `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=tls` and see if that resolves the issue.

2. If that doesn't work, try changing `MAIL_PORT=587` in your `.env` file to `MAIL_PORT=465`, which is the port typically used for SSL encryption.

3. If neither of those work, it's possible that the SMTP server doesn't support encryption at all. In that case, you can try setting `MAIL_ENCRYPTION=null` in your `.env` file.

Remember to clear your config cache each time you make a change to your `.env` file by running `php artisan config:cache` in your terminal.

If none of these suggestions work, you may need to contact the administrator of the SMTP server to find out what settings you should be using.

--------
