
# Post \#57564792 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57564792/)

## Laravel Spatie Roles get current users role

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 46585 (174/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-444

Created at 2019-08-19 22:50:54

Tags: `laravel` `laravel-5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Using laravels Spatie/Roles is there a way to get the current users role who is logged in?

I've tried

```
if($this->hasRole('admin')) { //do something }
```


but it wont work


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can get the current logged in user's role using Laravel's Spatie/Roles package. However, you need to make sure you're calling the `hasRole` method on a user instance. 

Here's how you can do it:

```php
$user = auth()->user(); // get the currently logged in user

if($user->hasRole('admin')) { 
    // do something 
}
```

This will work if the currently logged in user has the 'admin' role. If there's no user logged in, `auth()->user()` will return `null`, and trying to call `hasRole` on `null` will result in an error. To prevent this, you can check if a user is logged in before checking their role:

```php
if (auth()->check() && auth()->user()->hasRole('admin')) {
    // do something
}
```

This will only execute the code inside the if statement if a user is logged in and they have the 'admin' role. 

If you want to get the role of the user, you can use the `getRoleNames` method:

```php
$user = auth()->user(); // get the currently logged in user

$roles = $user->getRoleNames(); // Returns a collection
```

Remember to use these codes inside a function where `auth()` can get the current logged in user.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can get the current user's role using Laravel's Spatie/Roles package. However, you need to make sure that you are calling the `hasRole` method on a user instance. 

If you are trying to check the role of the currently logged in user, you should use the `Auth` facade to get the user instance first. Here's how you can do it:

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

// ...

$user = Auth::user();

if($user->hasRole('admin')) {
    // do something
}
```

This code will first get the currently logged in user using the `Auth::user()` method. Then it will check if this user has the 'admin' role using the `hasRole` method.

Remember, the `hasRole` method will only work if the user instance is not null. So you should check if the user is logged in before calling this method. You can do this using the `Auth::check()` method:

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

// ...

if (Auth::check() && Auth::user()->hasRole('admin')) {
    // do something
}
```

This code will first check if a user is logged in. If a user is logged in, it will then check if this user has the 'admin' role.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can get the current logged in user's role using Spatie's Roles and Permissions package in Laravel. However, you need to make sure you're calling the `hasRole` method on a user instance. Here's how you can do it:

```php
$user = auth()->user(); // get the currently logged in user

if($user->hasRole('admin')) { 
    // do something 
}
```

This will check if the currently logged in user has the 'admin' role. If the user is not logged in, `auth()->user()` will return null and calling `hasRole` on null will cause an error. So, you might want to add a check to ensure a user is logged in:

```php
if(auth()->check() && auth()->user()->hasRole('admin')) { 
    // do something 
}
```

This will first check if a user is logged in with `auth()->check()`. If a user is logged in, it will then check if the user has the 'admin' role.

--------
