
# Post \#60841930 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60841930/)

## Laravel 6-7 How Can I Override/Change a Vendor Class?

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 12997 (382/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-449

Created at 2020-03-25 01:47:38

Tags: `php` `laravel` `composer-php` `laravel-6` `laravel-7`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I recently ran into a problem where I need to change one of Laravel's vendor files to get a desired result.
That file is `vendor/laravel/framework/Illuminate/Routing/CompileRouteCollection.php`.

Inside that file, a function needs to be changed.

```
protected function requestWithoutTrailingSlash(Request $request)
{
    $trimmedRequest = Request::createFromBase($request);

    $parts = explode('?', $request->server->get('REQUEST_URI'), 2);

    $trimmedRequest->server->set(
        'REQUEST_URI', rtrim($parts[0], '/').(isset($parts[1]) ? '?'.$parts[1] : '')
    );

    return $trimmedRequest;
}
```


More specifically, this part: `rtrim($parts[0], '/')`. That / at the end needs to be removed in order for parts of my routes to work.

I have tried creating my own custom class inside: `App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection.php`. In which I copy the function listed above and make my own changes.

App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection.php

```
namespace App\Helpers;

use Illuminate\Http\Request;

class CompiledRouteCollection extends \Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection
{
    protected function requestWithoutTrailingSlash(Request $request)
    {
        $trimmedRequest = Request::createFromBase($request);

        $parts = explode('?', $request->server->get('REQUEST_URI'), 2);

        $trimmedRequest->server->set(
            'REQUEST_URI', rtrim($parts[0], '').(isset($parts[1]) ? '?'.$parts[1] : '')
        );

        return $trimmedRequest;
    }
}
```


Then I go into App\Providers\AppServiceProvider and I run this inside of the register function.

```
public function register()
{
    $loader = AliasLoader::getInstance();
    $loader->alias('App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection', 'Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection');
}
```


But nothing happens.



I changed my alias to this:

```
$loader = AliasLoader::getInstance();
$loader->alias('Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection', 'App\Helpers\CompiledRouteCollection');
```


But now in my Helper class it returns this error when trying to access any page:
`Class 'Illuminate\Routing\CompiledRouteCollection' not found`

To anyone who is interested in helping me out thank you so much. If you need more information please let me know!

If you need more context I opened up an issue on laravel/framework that has the full background explanation [here](https://github.com/laravel/framework/issues/32082)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like you are trying to override a vendor file in Laravel, which is not recommended as it can cause issues with future updates and maintenance. Instead, you can create a middleware to modify the request before it reaches the routing system.

Here's an example of how you can create a middleware to remove the trailing slash from the request URI:

1. Create a new middleware using the following command:

```
php artisan make:middleware RemoveTrailingSlash
```

2. Open the newly created middleware file `app/Http/Middleware/RemoveTrailingSlash.php` and modify the `handle` method to remove the trailing slash:

```
public function handle($request, Closure $next)
{
    $uri = $request->getRequestUri();
    if (substr($uri, -1) === '/') {
        $request->server->set('REQUEST_URI', substr($uri, 0, -1));
    }
    return $next($request);
}
```

3. Register the middleware in the `$middleware` array in `app/Http/Kernel.php`:

```
protected $middleware = [
    // ...
    \App\Http\Middleware\RemoveTrailingSlash::class,
];
```

With this middleware, any request with a trailing slash will have it removed before it reaches the routing system. This way, you don't have to modify any vendor files and your code will be more maintainable in the long run.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like you are trying to override a function in a vendor file, which is not recommended as it can cause issues with future updates and maintenance of your application. Instead, you can create a middleware that modifies the request object before it reaches the router.

Here's an example middleware that removes the trailing slash from the request URI:

```
namespace App\Http\Middleware;

use Closure;

class RemoveTrailingSlash
{
    public function handle($request, Closure $next)
    {
        $uri = $request->getRequestUri();
        if (substr($uri, -1) === '/') {
            $request->server->set('REQUEST_URI', substr($uri, 0, -1));
        }
        return $next($request);
    }
}
```

Then, you can register this middleware in your `App\Http\Kernel` class:

```
protected $middleware = [
    // ...
    \App\Http\Middleware\RemoveTrailingSlash::class,
];
```

This way, the middleware will modify the request object before it reaches the router, and you don't have to modify any vendor files.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like you're trying to override a method in a vendor file, which is not recommended as it can cause issues with updates and compatibility. Instead, you can create a middleware that modifies the request object before it reaches the routing system.

Here's an example of how you can achieve this:

1. Create a new middleware using the command `php artisan make:middleware RemoveTrailingSlashMiddleware`.

2. Open the newly created middleware file `app/Http/Middleware/RemoveTrailingSlashMiddleware.php` and modify the `handle` method as follows:

```
public function handle($request, Closure $next)
{
    $uri = $request->getRequestUri();
    $request->server->set('REQUEST_URI', rtrim($uri, '/'));

    return $next($request);
}
```

3. Register the middleware in `app/Http/Kernel.php` by adding it to the `$middleware` array:

```
protected $middleware = [
    // ...
    \App\Http\Middleware\RemoveTrailingSlashMiddleware::class,
];
```

4. Remove any changes you made to the vendor file `vendor/laravel/framework/Illuminate/Routing/CompileRouteCollection.php`.

With this middleware in place, any request that has a trailing slash will have it removed before it reaches the routing system. This should achieve the same result as modifying the vendor file, but in a more maintainable and upgrade-friendly way.

--------
