
# Post \#52231248 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52231248/)

## Laravel showing "Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions"

**Vote**: 139 (36/702) **Views**: 181042 (43/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-424

Created at 2018-09-08 01:34:29

Tags: `laravel` `composer-php`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Laravel was displaying to me "Access denied for user 'homestead'@'localhost' (using password: YES)". One solution for this was clearing the cache and the config cache stored, all this with these three commands:

```
php artisan cache:clear
php artisan config:clear
php artisan config:cache
```


After `php artisan cache:clear`, terminal says:

`Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions.` (with red background)

Doing the second and third code (`php artisan config:clear` and `php artisan config:cache`) works fine! But it still gives me the error when typing the first line. Can anyone explain why? 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message "Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions." indicates that the user running the command does not have sufficient permissions to clear the cache. 

To resolve this issue, you can try running the command with elevated privileges. If you are on a Unix-based system, you can use the `sudo` command to run the command as a superuser. For example:

```
sudo php artisan cache:clear
```

If you are on a Windows system, you can try running the command prompt as an administrator and then running the command. 

Alternatively, you can manually delete the cache files from the storage directory. The cache files are located in the `storage/framework/cache` directory. You can delete all the files in this directory to clear the cache. 

After clearing the cache, you can try running the `php artisan cache:clear` command again to see if it works.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message "Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions." indicates that the user running the command does not have sufficient permissions to clear the cache. 

To fix this issue, you can try running the command with elevated privileges by using `sudo`. For example, you can try running the command as follows:

```
sudo php artisan cache:clear
```

This should allow the command to run with the necessary permissions to clear the cache. If you are still encountering issues, you may need to check the file permissions for the cache directory and ensure that the user running the command has the appropriate permissions to modify the files in that directory.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message "Failed to clear cache. Make sure you have the appropriate permissions." indicates that the user running the command does not have sufficient permissions to clear the cache. 

To fix this issue, you can try running the command with elevated privileges. For example, you can try running the command with `sudo`:

```
sudo php artisan cache:clear
```

Alternatively, you can try changing the ownership of the storage directory to the user running the command:

```
sudo chown -R yourusername:yourusername storage
```

Replace `yourusername` with the actual username of the user running the command. 

After changing the ownership, try running the `php artisan cache:clear` command again.

--------
