
# Post \#59131764 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59131764/)

## Laravel error when sending custom email address using smtp server

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 20674 (299/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-427

Created at 2019-12-02 02:03:56

Tags: `php` `laravel` `email` `smtp`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a project that has a module that sends email from request. Im using beautymail package for the email template. I can send an email using a gmail account, but there is this email that I get from my client that has a custome email address in it. Like this xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg, they said that the email is a smtp server. So I tried configuring my `.env` and other configuration files in laravel. But I get this error upon sending `Connection could not be established with host mail.propnex.sg :stream_socket_client(): SSL operation failed with code 1. OpenSSL Error messages: error:1408F10B:SSL routines:ssl3_get_record:wrong version number` Could someone tell me why Im getting this error and what should I do to get rid of this? Thanks a lot

.env config

```
MAIL_DRIVER=smtp
MAIL_HOST=mail.propnex.sg
MAIL_PORT=587
MAIL_USERNAME=xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg
MAIL_PASSWORD=xxxxxxxx
MAIL_ENCRYPTION=ssl
```


Mail.php

```
'from' => [
        'address' => 'xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg',
        'name' => 'Propnex',
    ],

    'reply_to' => ['address' => 'xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg', 'name' => 'Propnex'],

    'encryption' => env('MAIL_ENCRYPTION', 'tls'),


    'username' => env('MAIL_USERNAME'),

    'password' => env('MAIL_PASSWORD'),

    'port' => env('MAIL_PORT', 587),

    'driver' => env('MAIL_DRIVER', 'smtp'),

    'host' => env('MAIL_HOST', 'mail.propnex.sg'),
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are receiving suggests that there is an issue with the SSL certificate on the mail server. It could be that the server is using an outdated SSL version that is not supported by your email client.

To resolve this issue, you can try changing the encryption method from "ssl" to "tls" in your `.env` file and in the `mail.php` configuration file. TLS is a more secure and up-to-date encryption protocol that is widely supported by email clients and servers.

Here's how you can update your `.env` file:

```
MAIL_DRIVER=smtp
MAIL_HOST=mail.propnex.sg
MAIL_PORT=587
MAIL_USERNAME=xx.xxxxx@propnex.sg
MAIL_PASSWORD=xxxxxxxx
MAIL_ENCRYPTION=tls
```

And here's how you can update your `mail.php` configuration file:

```
'encryption' => env('MAIL_ENCRYPTION', 'tls'),
```

After making these changes, try sending the email again and see if the issue is resolved. If you still encounter the same error, you may need to contact your client's IT department or email service provider for further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you are receiving indicates that there is an issue with the SSL certificate on the SMTP server. It could be that the server is using an outdated SSL version or the SSL certificate is not properly configured.

To fix this issue, you can try changing the encryption type from `ssl` to `tls` in your `.env` file and `mail.php` configuration file. Also, make sure that the `MAIL_PORT` is set to the correct port number for the SMTP server.

If that doesn't work, you can try contacting the email provider and ask them to check their SSL certificate configuration. They may need to update their SSL certificate or provide you with a different SMTP server address.

Additionally, you can try using a different email provider or SMTP server that supports SSL encryption.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you are getting suggests that there is a problem with the SSL certificate on the mail server. The SSL certificate may be expired, invalid or not trusted by your server. 

To fix this issue, you can try changing the encryption method from 'ssl' to 'tls' in your .env file and mail.php configuration file. 

```
MAIL_ENCRYPTION=tls
```

If that doesn't work, you can try disabling SSL verification by adding the following line to your mail.php configuration file:

```
'stream' => [
    'ssl' => [
        'verify_peer' => false,
        'verify_peer_name' => false,
        'allow_self_signed' => true,
    ],
],
```

This will disable SSL verification and allow your server to connect to the mail server without verifying the SSL certificate. However, this is not recommended for production environments as it can pose a security risk.

If none of the above solutions work, you may need to contact the mail server administrator to check the SSL certificate and ensure that it is valid and trusted.

--------
