
# Post \#69842810 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69842810/)

## How to pass an array to Laravel Route parameter

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 1542 (624/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-443

Created at 2021-11-04 16:40:51

Tags: `laravel`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I wanted to pass a value of typed `array` to my route parameter, the array could be in any size and a different key-value pairs each time.
```
Route::get('/example/{array}', ...
```

So if I have an array like this:
```
$array = [
  'a' => 'one',
  'b' => 1,
  ...
]
```

I did this but knew already it ain't gonna work because it looks like I'm passing values to my route parameters named `a`, `b`, etc.
```
route('route.name', $array)
```

As expected the error says:
> ... [Missing parameter: array]
So I used the `serialize()`.
```
route('route.name', serialize($array))
```

I'm still getting an error, something like:
> [Missing parameter: s:1:"a";i:1;s:1:"b";i:2;]
What am I missing ? I also don't understand what the last error says.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

When you pass an array as a route parameter, Laravel tries to match each key in the array to a corresponding route parameter. That's why you're getting the error message about missing parameters.

To pass an array as a route parameter, you can use the `implode()` function to convert the array to a string with a separator, and then pass that string as the route parameter. For example:

```
$array = [
  'a' => 'one',
  'b' => 1,
  // ...
];

$routeParam = implode(',', $array);

route('route.name', ['array' => $routeParam]);
```

In your route definition, you can then use a regular expression to match the string and convert it back to an array:

```
Route::get('/example/{array}', function ($arrayParam) {
  $array = [];
  $items = explode(',', $arrayParam);
  foreach ($items as $item) {
    $parts = explode(':', $item);
    $array[$parts[0]] = $parts[1];
  }
  // ...
});
```

The error message you're seeing is the serialized version of the array. `serialize()` converts the array to a string that can be stored or transmitted, but it's not suitable for passing as a route parameter. To use `serialize()`, you would need to unserialize the string in your route definition, but that's more complicated than using `implode()` and `explode()`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

When you pass an array as a route parameter, Laravel expects the array keys to match the parameter names in the route definition. In your case, you are trying to pass an array with keys `a`, `b`, etc. to a route parameter named `array`, which won't work.

To pass an array as a route parameter, you can use the `json_encode` function to convert the array to a JSON string, and then pass it as a parameter to the route. Here's an example:

```
$array = [
  'a' => 'one',
  'b' => 1,
  // ...
];

$route = route('route.name', ['array' => json_encode($array)]);
```

In your route definition, you can then use the `json_decode` function to convert the JSON string back to an array:

```
Route::get('/example/{array}', function ($array) {
    $array = json_decode($array, true);
    // ...
});
```

Regarding the error you are seeing, it looks like you are passing a serialized string to the route parameter instead of a JSON string. The error message is showing the serialized string, which is not what Laravel expects.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can't pass an array directly as a route parameter. One way to solve this is to convert the array to a string using `json_encode()` or `serialize()` and then pass it as a parameter. 

In your case, you used `serialize()` to convert the array to a string, but the error message you received indicates that the serialized string is being interpreted as separate parameters. 

To fix this, you can use `urlencode()` to encode the serialized string before passing it as a parameter. Then, in your route handler, you can use `urldecode()` and `unserialize()` to convert the parameter back to an array.

Here's an example:

```
// Generating the URL
$array = [
  'a' => 'one',
  'b' => 1,
  // ...
];
$url = route('route.name', ['array' => urlencode(serialize($array))]);

// Handling the route
Route::get('/example/{array}', function ($encodedArray) {
  $array = unserialize(urldecode($encodedArray));
  // Use $array as needed
});
```

This should allow you to pass an array of any size and structure as a route parameter.

--------
