
# Post \#58078757 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58078757/)

## Class 'Illuminate\Support\Facades\Input' not found

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 53012 (157/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-440

Created at 2019-09-24 10:56:08

Tags: `laravel` `class`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an error when upgrading laravel 6 

> Symfony \ Component \ Debug \ Exception \ FatalThrowableError
  (E_ERROR) Class 'Illuminate\Support\Facades\Input' not found



[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/HlQX4.jpg)



[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/MfrOw.jpg)

 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs because the `Input` facade has been removed in Laravel 6. Instead, you should use the `request()` helper function to access input data.

To fix this error, you need to update your code to use the `request()` function instead of the `Input` facade. For example, instead of using `Input::get('name')`, you should use `request()->input('name')`.

You should also check your code for any other references to the `Input` facade and update them accordingly.

Once you have made these changes, try running the upgrade again and see if the error persists.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the `Input` facade is not found in the `Illuminate\Support\Facades` namespace. This is because the `Input` facade was removed in Laravel 6 and replaced with the `request()` helper function.

To fix this error, you need to replace all instances of `Input::` with `request()->`. For example, if you have code like this:

```
$input = Input::get('name');
```

You should change it to:

```
$input = request()->input('name');
```

Make sure to update all occurrences of `Input::` in your code. Once you have made these changes, try running the upgrade command again and see if the error is resolved.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error occurs because the `Input` facade has been removed in Laravel 6. Instead, you should use the `request()` helper function to access input data.

To fix this error, you need to replace all instances of `Input::` with `request()->`. For example, if you have code like this:

```
$input = Input::get('name');
```

You should change it to:

```
$input = request()->input('name');
```

Make sure to do this for all instances of `Input::` in your code. Once you have made these changes, try running the upgrade again and see if the error is resolved.

--------
