
# Post \#64828762 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64828762/)

## Getting current page url on wp-admin/admin dashboard?

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 7836 (467/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-445

Created at 2020-11-13 22:20:10

Tags: `php` `wordpress` `query-variables`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Im trying to get the current page url while on the wp-admin/admin dashboard, is it possible?
Im trying to use these codes but i can't seem to get it to work.
```
global $wp;
$current_page = add_query_arg( $wp->query_vars, home_url( $wp->request ) );
```

The output i wanted is like this: `https://example.com/1/wp-admin/admin.php?page=test`
But instead, the output turns like this: `/1/wp-admin/admin.php?page=test&=https://example.com/1`
Any help is greatly appreciated


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, it is possible to get the current page URL while on the wp-admin/admin dashboard. You can use the `admin_url()` function to get the base URL of the admin area and then append the current page's query string to it.

Here's an example code snippet that should work for you:

```
$current_page_url = admin_url() . 'admin.php?' . $_SERVER['QUERY_STRING'];
```

This will give you the full URL of the current page, including any query parameters. You can then use this URL as needed in your code.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, it is possible to get the current page URL while on the wp-admin/admin dashboard. You can use the `admin_url()` function to get the base URL of the admin area and then append the current page URL using the `$_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']` variable. Here's an example code:

```
$current_page_url = admin_url() . $_SERVER['REQUEST_URI'];
```

This should give you the current page URL in the format you wanted, like `https://example.com/1/wp-admin/admin.php?page=test`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, it is possible to get the current page URL while on the wp-admin/admin dashboard. You can use the following code to achieve this:

```
$current_page = admin_url() . 'admin.php?page=' . $_GET['page'];
```

This code will give you the current page URL with the page parameter set to the current page's slug. You can modify it as per your requirement.

Note: Make sure to use this code only on the admin dashboard pages as it may not work on other pages.

--------
