
# Post \#58078757 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58078757/)

## Class 'Illuminate\Support\Facades\Input' not found

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 53012 (157/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-440

Created at 2019-09-24 10:56:08

Tags: `laravel` `class`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an error when upgrading laravel 6 

> Symfony \ Component \ Debug \ Exception \ FatalThrowableError
  (E_ERROR) Class 'Illuminate\Support\Facades\Input' not found



[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/HlQX4.jpg)



[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/MfrOw.jpg)

 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is because the `Input` facade was removed in Laravel 6.0. You should replace any usage of the `Input` facade with a `Request` facade.

So, instead of using `Input::get('key')`, you should use `Request::input('key')`.

If you want to use the `Request` facade, make sure to include it at the top of your file:

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Request;
```

Then you can use it in your code like this:

```php
$value = Request::input('key');
```

Or if you want to use dependency injection, you can do it like this:

```php
public function yourFunctionName(Illuminate\Http\Request $request)
{
    $value = $request->input('key');
}
```

Remember to replace `'key'` with the actual key you're trying to access.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're encountering is because the `Input` facade was removed in Laravel 6.0. You should replace any usage of the `Input` facade with a `Request` facade instead.

For example, if you were using `Input::get('key')`, you should replace it with `Request::input('key')`.

If you're using `Input::all()`, you should replace it with `Request::all()`.

So, you need to replace `use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Input;` with `use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Request;` in your code.

If you're using `Input` in a lot of places, you might consider adding an alias for it in your `config/app.php` file:

```php
'aliases' => [
    // ...
    'Input' => Illuminate\Support\Facades\Request::class,
    // ...
],
```

This will allow you to use `Input::` as you did before, but it will be using the `Request` facade under the hood.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're encountering is because the `Input` facade was removed in Laravel 6.0. You should replace any usage of the `Input` facade with a `Request` facade.

So, instead of using `Input::get('key')`, you should use `Request::input('key')`.

If you are using `Input` in many places, you can also add an alias for it in `config/app.php`:

```php
'aliases' => [
    ...
    'Input' => Illuminate\Support\Facades\Request::class,
    ...
]
```

This will allow you to use `Input::get('key')` as before. However, it's recommended to replace `Input` with `Request` to adhere to the changes in Laravel 6.0 and onwards.

--------
