
# Post \#56219962 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56219962/)

## Composer require ext-zip fails

**Vote**: 25 (228/702) **Views**: 43371 (184/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-439

Created at 2019-05-20 11:21:02

Tags: `php` `composer-php` `phpstorm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am told by PHPStorm that I need to composer require ext-zip, however, that command is failing...

PHPStorm says

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Ir6Qy.png)

The command I am issuing is

```
composer require ext-zip
```


results in

```
Your requirements could not be resolved to an installable set of packages.
```


and

```
Installation failed, reverting ./composer.json to its original content.
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `ext-zip` is a PHP extension, not a Composer package. That's why you can't install it using `composer require ext-zip`.

You need to install it via your PHP installation. If you're using a Unix-like operating system, you can install it via `pecl` or `apt-get`:

```bash
sudo apt-get install php-zip
```

or

```bash
pecl install zip
```

If you're using Windows, you can enable it in your `php.ini` file by uncommenting or adding the line:

```ini
extension=php_zip.dll
```

After installing the extension, you should add it to your `composer.json` file to ensure that it's required for your project:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "php": "^7.1",
        "ext-zip": "*"
    }
}
```

Then run `composer update` to update your project dependencies.

Remember to restart your web server after installing the extension.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `ext-zip` is a PHP extension, not a Composer package. This means that it needs to be installed on your PHP environment, not via Composer.

If you are using a Unix-like operating system, you can install the `zip` extension with the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install php-zip
```

If you are using Windows, you can enable the extension by editing your `php.ini` file:

1. Open your `php.ini` file (you can find its location by running `php --ini`).
2. Find the line `;extension=zip`.
3. Uncomment this line by removing the semicolon at the start.
4. Save the `php.ini` file.
5. Restart your web server.

After installing or enabling the `zip` extension, you should be able to use the `ZipArchive` class in your PHP code.

If you still see the warning in PHPStorm, you may need to update PHPStorm's interpreter settings to make sure it's using the correct PHP version.

If you're using Docker, you'll need to ensure the `zip` extension is installed in the Docker image you're using for your PHP environment. This will depend on the specific image you're using, but in a Dockerfile it might look something like this:

```Dockerfile
RUN docker-php-ext-install zip
```

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `ext-zip` is a PHP extension, not a Composer package. This means you cannot install it using Composer. Instead, you need to install it on your system where PHP is installed.

Here's how you can install it:

1. For Ubuntu/Debian:
```bash
sudo apt-get install php-zip
```
2. For CentOS:
```bash
sudo yum install php-pecl-zip
```
3. For Windows:
   - Locate your `php.ini` file (you can check where it is from `phpinfo();`)
   - Uncomment the line `;extension=php_zip.dll` by removing the semicolon at the start
   - Restart your Apache server

After installing the extension, you can verify it's installed by running `php -m` in your terminal, it should list `zip` in the output.

If you're using Docker, you need to add the extension installation command in your Dockerfile.

After you've installed the `ext-zip` extension, you can then add it to your `composer.json` file like so:

```json
"require": {
    "php": "^7.1.3",
    "ext-zip": "*",
    // ... other dependencies
}
```

Then run `composer install` again.

--------
