
# Post \#41209349 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41209349/)

## require(vendor/autoload.php): failed to open stream

**Vote**: 254 (9/702) **Views**: 1003817 (1/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-442

Created at 2016-12-18 14:33:50

Tags: `php` `email` `composer-php` `phpmailer`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I know that this issue has been posted many times, but for me it seems to be a different problem.
Indeed, this error
> Warning: require(vendor/autoload.php): failed to open stream: No such file or directory in C:\xampp\htdocs\site_web\send_mail.php on line 3Fatal error: require(): Failed opening required 'vendor/autoload.php' (include_path='C:\xampp\php\PEAR') in C:\xampp\htdocs\site_web\send_mail.php on line 3
appears at the begining of my code from this line:
```
require 'vendor/autoload.php';
```

So, I guess there must be a /vendor/autoload.php file somewhere in my computer (I have installed composer and ran `composer require phpmailer/phpmailer`).
So, I looked for this file using: `dir /s autoload.php` in the Windows command line, and found one here: `C:\Windows\SysWOW64\vendor\autoload.php`,
but for me,  folder has nothing to see with , I don't see what I am missing here.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like you are missing the vendor folder in your project directory. The vendor folder is usually created by Composer when you run the `composer install` or `composer update` command. 

To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Open the command prompt or terminal and navigate to your project directory.
2. Run the command `composer install` to install all the required dependencies for your project.
3. After the installation is complete, check if the vendor folder is created in your project directory.
4. If the vendor folder is created, try running your code again.

If the issue still persists, you can try deleting the vendor folder and running the `composer install` command again. This will reinstall all the dependencies and create a new vendor folder.

Also, make sure that you are including the correct path to the autoload.php file in your code. The path should be relative to your project directory.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The issue you are facing is related to the path of the `autoload.php` file. When you run `composer require phpmailer/phpmailer`, Composer downloads the required package and creates a `vendor` folder in your project directory. The `autoload.php` file is located inside this `vendor` folder.

In your code, you are trying to require the `autoload.php` file using a relative path (`require 'vendor/autoload.php';`). This means that PHP will look for the `vendor` folder in the same directory as your PHP file.

Based on the error message you provided, it seems that PHP is unable to find the `autoload.php` file in the `vendor` folder. This could be because the `vendor` folder is not located in the same directory as your PHP file.

To fix this issue, you need to make sure that the `vendor` folder is located in the same directory as your PHP file. You can do this by running the `composer require` command in the same directory as your PHP file.

Alternatively, you can update the path to the `autoload.php` file in your code to reflect the correct location. For example, if the `vendor` folder is located in the root directory of your project, you can use the following code to require the `autoload.php` file:

```
require __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';
```

This code uses the `__DIR__` constant to get the absolute path to the directory of the current PHP file, and then appends the path to the `autoload.php` file relative to that directory.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The issue here is that the `require` statement is looking for the `autoload.php` file in the current directory, but it is not finding it there. 

When you run `composer require phpmailer/phpmailer`, Composer downloads the required package and installs it in the `vendor` directory of your project. So, you need to make sure that the `vendor` directory is in the same directory as your `send_mail.php` file.

To fix the issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Check if the `vendor` directory is present in the same directory as your `send_mail.php` file.
2. If it is not present, run `composer install` in the root directory of your project to install the required packages and create the `vendor` directory.
3. If it is present, make sure that the path to the `autoload.php` file is correct in the `require` statement. For example, if the `vendor` directory is in the same directory as your `send_mail.php` file, the `require` statement should be:

```
require __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';
```

This will ensure that the `autoload.php` file is loaded from the correct directory.

--------
