
# Post \#62182092 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62182092/)

## Laravel Sanctum Token API Authentication Not Working in Postman

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 8895 (433/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-428

Created at 2020-06-03 20:22:47

Tags: `php` `laravel` `authentication` `laravel-sanctum`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to utilize Sanctum for an API only application. I am not using it for a SPA. I have a single end point set up and protected by the Sanctum middleware. I am creating a user and a token for said user through the tinker cli tool. I then paste the token into Postman under the bearer token selection within the authorization tab. However, when I submit the request I get an unauthenticated error. Not quite sure what I am doing incorrect here. Followed the documentation provided very closely as well as the sparse videos I could find. Here are some code snippets. I appreciate the insight here.

API.php

```
Route::middleware('auth:sanctum')->apiResource('/documents','DocumentHandlerController');
```


Middleware/Authenticate.php

```
class Authenticate extends Middleware
{
    /**
     * Return 401 when not authorized
     *
     * @param  \Illuminate\Http\Request  $request
     * @return string|null
     */
    public function handle($request)
    {
        return response()->json(
            ['message'=>'Unauthorized']
            ,Response::HTTP_UNAUTHORIZED
        );
    }
}
```


Function from my controller

```
public function index()
    {
        return response()->json(['Success'],Response::HTTP_OK);
    }
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like you have set up Sanctum correctly, but there might be an issue with how you are generating and using the token.

Here are some steps you can follow to troubleshoot the issue:

1. Make sure that you have installed and configured Sanctum correctly. You can check the official documentation for more information.

2. Generate a new token for the user using the `createToken` method. You can do this in your controller or in a separate command. Here is an example:

```
$user = User::find(1);
$token = $user->createToken('token-name')->plainTextToken;
```

3. Make sure that you are using the correct token in Postman. You can check the token by printing it in your controller or by checking the `personal_access_tokens` table in your database.

4. Check if the token is being passed correctly in the request. You can do this by adding a middleware to your route that logs the request headers. Here is an example:

```
Route::middleware(['auth:sanctum', function ($request, $next) {
    Log::info($request->headers->all());
    return $next($request);
}])->apiResource('/documents','DocumentHandlerController');
```

5. If the token is being passed correctly, check if the user is authenticated in your controller. You can do this by calling the `user` method on the request object. Here is an example:

```
public function index(Request $request)
{
    $user = $request->user();
    if ($user) {
        return response()->json(['Success'],Response::HTTP_OK);
    } else {
        return response()->json(['Unauthorized'],Response::HTTP_UNAUTHORIZED);
    }
}
```

I hope this helps you troubleshoot the issue. Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like you have set up Sanctum correctly, but there might be an issue with the way you are generating and using the token. Here are a few things you can check:

1. Make sure you are generating the token for the correct user. You can use the `createToken` method on the user model to generate a token:

```
$user = User::find(1);
$token = $user->createToken('token-name')->plainTextToken;
```

2. Make sure you are passing the token correctly in Postman. You should set the Authorization header to `Bearer {token}` where `{token}` is the token you generated in step 1.

3. Make sure you are sending the request to the correct endpoint. In your case, it should be `http://localhost:8000/api/documents`.

If you have checked all of the above and are still getting an unauthenticated error, you can try adding some debug statements to see where the error is coming from. For example, you can add the following to your `Authenticate` middleware:

```
public function handle($request)
{
    if (! $request->expectsJson()) {
        return response()->json(['message' => 'Unauthorized'], 401);
    }

    if (! $request->bearerToken()) {
        return response()->json(['message' => 'Token not provided'], 401);
    }

    if (! Auth::guard('sanctum')->check()) {
        return response()->json(['message' => 'Invalid token'], 401);
    }

    return $next($request);
}
```

This will check if the request expects JSON, if a token was provided, and if the token is valid. If any of these checks fail, it will return an appropriate error message.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like you have set up Sanctum correctly, but there might be an issue with the token generation or the way you are passing the token in Postman. Here are a few things you can check:

1. Make sure you are generating the token for the correct user. You can check the user ID in the token payload to verify this.

2. Double-check that you are passing the token correctly in Postman. You should be adding it to the "Authorization" header as "Bearer {token}".

3. Check if there are any typos or errors in the token itself. You can try generating a new token and see if that works.

4. Make sure the token is not expired. By default, Sanctum tokens expire after 1 hour. You can increase the token expiration time by modifying the `lifetime` value in the `config/sanctum.php` file.

5. Check if there are any other middleware or authentication guards that might be interfering with Sanctum. Make sure that the `auth:sanctum` middleware is the only one applied to the route.

If none of these solutions work, you can try enabling Sanctum's debug mode by setting the `SANCTUM_STATEFUL_DOMAINS` environment variable to your application's domain. This will allow you to see more detailed error messages in the response.

--------
