
# Post \#71573457 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71573457/)

## submit multiple arrays from html and combine their attribute into seperate collections and store in Laravel App

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 758 (681/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-447

Created at 2022-03-22 14:08:00

Tags: `arrays` `laravel` `forms` `eloquent`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I submitting the arrays value from the html and recieving them into the Laravel controller, the problem is I have multiple arrays with seprate attributes arrays. I want to store the info into the database as a collection. Let me explain with example
HTML CODE
```
<input type="text" name="tw_name[]" placeholder="name" value="{{ old('tw_name') }}">
<input type="text" name="tw_price[]"  placeholder="price" value="{{ old('tw_price') }}">
```

Now I am receving the tw_name and tw_prices arrays in the controller, but I want to store them into the database using model like below
```
Bet::create([
  'name' => 'first_name',
  'price' => '10',
]);

Bet::create([
  'name' => 'second_name',
  'price' => '20',
]);
```

User can add 12 forms, so we can't say that user can submit 3 form or 5 form or 10. So we need to handle the same form and save them into database.
if the user will submit 3 form it we will recive 3 arrays in controller
```
Bet::create([
  'name' => 'first_name',
  'price' => '10',
]);

Bet::create([
  'name' => 'second_name',
  'price' => '20',
]);
Bet::create([
  'name' => 'thir_name',
  'price' => '30',
]);
```

How can I save them into database, Thank you


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To save multiple arrays with separate attributes into the database as a collection, you can use a loop to iterate through each array and create a new Bet model for each set of values. Here's an example of how you can do it in your Laravel controller:

```
public function store(Request $request)
{
    $tw_names = $request->input('tw_name');
    $tw_prices = $request->input('tw_price');

    $bets = collect();

    foreach ($tw_names as $key => $tw_name) {
        $bet = new Bet();
        $bet->name = $tw_name;
        $bet->price = $tw_prices[$key];
        $bets->push($bet);
    }

    Bet::insert($bets->toArray());

    return redirect()->back()->with('success', 'Bets saved successfully.');
}
```

In this example, we first retrieve the `tw_name` and `tw_price` arrays from the request. We then create a new collection to hold our Bet models.

Next, we loop through each `tw_name` value and create a new Bet model for each set of values. We set the `name` attribute to the current `tw_name` value and the `price` attribute to the corresponding `tw_price` value.

We then add each Bet model to our collection using the `push` method.

Finally, we use the `insert` method to insert all of the Bet models into the database at once.

This approach allows you to handle any number of form submissions and save them all as a collection in the database.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To save multiple arrays with separate attributes into the database as a collection, you can use a loop to iterate through the arrays and create a new Bet model for each set of values. Here's an example of how you can do it in your Laravel controller:

```
public function store(Request $request)
{
    $tw_names = $request->input('tw_name');
    $tw_prices = $request->input('tw_price');

    $bets = [];

    foreach ($tw_names as $key => $name) {
        $bets[] = [
            'name' => $name,
            'price' => $tw_prices[$key],
        ];
    }

    Bet::insert($bets);

    return redirect()->back()->with('success', 'Bets saved successfully.');
}
```

In this example, we first retrieve the `tw_name` and `tw_price` arrays from the request. We then create an empty array called `$bets` to store the Bet models that we will create.

Next, we loop through the `$tw_names` array using the `foreach` loop. For each iteration, we create a new array with the `name` and `price` values from the corresponding positions in the `$tw_names` and `$tw_prices` arrays. We then add this array to the `$bets` array.

Finally, we use the `insert` method of the `Bet` model to insert all the Bet models at once into the database. This is more efficient than creating and saving each model individually.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To store multiple arrays with separate attributes in the database as a collection, you can use a loop to iterate through the arrays and create a new Bet model for each set of attributes. Here's an example of how you can do it in your Laravel controller:

```
public function store(Request $request)
{
    $tw_names = $request->input('tw_name');
    $tw_prices = $request->input('tw_price');

    $bets = collect();

    foreach ($tw_names as $index => $tw_name) {
        $bet = new Bet([
            'name' => $tw_name,
            'price' => $tw_prices[$index],
        ]);

        $bets->push($bet);
    }

    Bet::insert($bets->toArray());

    return redirect()->back()->with('success', 'Bets saved successfully.');
}
```

In this example, we first retrieve the `tw_name` and `tw_price` arrays from the request. We then create an empty collection to hold our Bet models.

Next, we loop through each element of the `tw_names` array and create a new Bet model for each set of attributes. We use the `$index` variable to access the corresponding element in the `tw_prices` array.

We then add each Bet model to our collection using the `push()` method.

Finally, we insert all the Bet models in the collection into the database using the `insert()` method.

This approach allows you to handle any number of form submissions and store them as a collection in the database.

--------
