
# Post \#73155832 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73155832/)

## Failure to install Laravel 9

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 922 (664/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-436

Created at 2022-07-28 16:01:30

Tags: `laravel`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Tying to install a Laravel 9 project.
Updated Composer from 2.0.8 to 2.3.10
Running `composer create-project laravel/laravel blog "9.*"`
Gives me : `Could not find package laravel/laravel with version 9.* in a version installable using your PHP version, PHP extens ions and Composer version.`


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It looks like the issue is related to your PHP version. Laravel 9 requires PHP 8.0 or higher, so you'll need to make sure you have the correct version installed on your system.

You can check your PHP version by running the following command in your terminal:

```
php -v
```

If you don't have PHP 8.0 or higher installed, you'll need to install it before you can install Laravel 9. You can download the latest version of PHP from the official website: https://www.php.net/downloads.php

Once you have the correct version of PHP installed, you can try running the `composer create-project` command again to install Laravel 9.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that the version of PHP you are using is not compatible with Laravel 9. Laravel 9 requires PHP 8.0 or higher. You can check your PHP version by running the command `php -v` in your terminal.

If you are using an older version of PHP, you will need to upgrade it to PHP 8.0 or higher. You can do this by following the instructions for your operating system.

Once you have upgraded your PHP version, you can try running the `composer create-project laravel/laravel blog "9.*"` command again. This should install Laravel 9 successfully.

If you still encounter issues, you can try running `composer clear-cache` and then running the `composer create-project laravel/laravel blog "9.*"` command again. This will clear any cached data that may be causing issues with the installation.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message indicates that your current PHP version and Composer version are not compatible with Laravel 9. 

Laravel 9 requires PHP 8.0 or higher, and Composer 2.1 or higher. You can check your current PHP version by running `php -v` in your terminal, and your Composer version by running `composer -V`.

To resolve this issue, you can try upgrading your PHP version to 8.0 or higher, and upgrading your Composer version to 2.1 or higher. Once you have done this, you should be able to run the `composer create-project laravel/laravel blog "9.*"` command successfully.

Alternatively, you can try installing an earlier version of Laravel that is compatible with your current PHP and Composer versions. For example, you can try running `composer create-project laravel/laravel blog "8.*"` to install Laravel 8.

--------
