
# Post \#70211690 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70211690/)

## New alternative for getDoctrine() in Symfony 5.4 and up

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 15544 (352/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-434

Created at 2021-12-03 08:54:01

Tags: `php` `symfony` `doctrine` `symfony5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

As my IDE points out, the `AbstractController::getDoctrine()` method is now deprecated.
I haven't found any reference for this deprecation neither in the official documentation nor in the Github changelog.
What is the new alternative or workaround for this shortcut?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The `AbstractController::getDoctrine()` method has been deprecated in Symfony 5.1 and will be removed in Symfony 6.0. The recommended alternative is to use dependency injection to inject the `Doctrine\Common\Persistence\ManagerRegistry` service into your controller.

Here's an example of how to do this:

```
use Doctrine\Common\Persistence\ManagerRegistry;
use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\AbstractController;

class MyController extends AbstractController
{
    private $doctrine;

    public function __construct(ManagerRegistry $doctrine)
    {
        $this->doctrine = $doctrine;
    }

    public function myAction()
    {
        $entityManager = $this->doctrine->getManager();
        // ...
    }
}
```

In this example, we inject the `ManagerRegistry` service into the controller's constructor and store it in a private property. Then, in the `myAction()` method, we retrieve the `EntityManager` from the `ManagerRegistry` and use it as needed.

Note that you'll need to update your service configuration to inject the `ManagerRegistry` service into your controller. Here's an example of how to do this in YAML:

```
services:
    App\Controller\MyController:
        arguments:
            $doctrine: '@doctrine'
```

This assumes that you're using the default service name for the `ManagerRegistry` service, which is `doctrine`. If you've customized this name, you'll need to update the service configuration accordingly.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `AbstractController::getDoctrine()` method has been deprecated in Symfony 5.1 and will be removed in Symfony 6.0. The recommended alternative is to use dependency injection to inject the `Doctrine\Common\Persistence\ManagerRegistry` service into your controller.

Here's an example of how to do this:

```php
use Doctrine\Common\Persistence\ManagerRegistry;
use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\AbstractController;

class MyController extends AbstractController
{
    private $managerRegistry;

    public function __construct(ManagerRegistry $managerRegistry)
    {
        $this->managerRegistry = $managerRegistry;
    }

    public function myAction()
    {
        $entityManager = $this->managerRegistry->getManager();
        // use $entityManager to interact with the database
    }
}
```

In this example, we inject the `ManagerRegistry` service into the controller's constructor and store it in a private property. Then, in the `myAction()` method, we retrieve the `EntityManager` from the `ManagerRegistry` and use it to interact with the database.

Note that the `ManagerRegistry` service is available in the container with the `doctrine` ID. So, if you're using autowiring, you can simply type-hint `Doctrine\Common\Persistence\ManagerRegistry` in your constructor and Symfony will automatically inject the `doctrine` service.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The `AbstractController::getDoctrine()` method has been deprecated in Symfony 5.2 and will be removed in Symfony 6.0. The recommended alternative is to use dependency injection to inject the `Doctrine\Persistence\ManagerRegistry` service into your controller.

Here's an example of how you can do this:

```php
use Doctrine\Persistence\ManagerRegistry;
use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\AbstractController;

class MyController extends AbstractController
{
    private $doctrine;

    public function __construct(ManagerRegistry $doctrine)
    {
        $this->doctrine = $doctrine;
    }

    public function myAction()
    {
        $entityManager = $this->doctrine->getManager();
        // ...
    }
}
```

In this example, we inject the `ManagerRegistry` service into the controller's constructor and store it in a private property. Then, in the `myAction()` method, we retrieve the `EntityManager` from the `ManagerRegistry` and use it as before.

Note that the `ManagerRegistry` service provides access to all the entity managers defined in your application, so you may need to specify which one you want to use by passing its name as an argument to the `getManager()` method.

--------
