
# Post \#73605230 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73605230/)

## Composer error while Composer update in cpanel

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 569 (689/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-433

Created at 2022-09-05 06:20:34

Tags: `php` `laravel` `composer-php` `laravel-8`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a Laravel project in, which laravel version is 8.75 and php version is 7.4.
When I upload my project in cpanel and go to terminal and run 'composer update' command ,it shows this type of error. I search this error but couldn't find any solution.
$ composer update
Composer is operating significantly slower than normal because you do not have the PHP curl extension enabled.
Loading composer repositories with package information
[Composer\Downloader\TransportException]
The "https://repo.packagist.org/packages.json" file could not be downloaded: allow_url_fopen must be enabled in php.ini (https:// wrapper is disabled in the server configuration by allow_url_fopen=0
Failed to open stream: no suitable wrapper could be found)
update [--with WITH] [--prefer-source] [--prefer-dist] [--prefer-install PREFER-INSTALL] [--dry-run] [--dev] [--no-dev] [--lock] [--no-install] [--no-autoloader] [--no-suggest] [--no-progress] [-w|--with-dependencies] [-W|--with-all-dependencies] [-v|vv|vvv|--verbose] [-o|--optimize-autoloader] [-a|--classmap-authoritative] [--apcu-autoloader] [--apcu-autoloader-prefix APCU-AUTOLOADER-PREFIX] [--ignore-platform-req IGNORE-PLATFORM-REQ] [--ignore-platform-reqs] [--prefer-stable] [--prefer-lowest] [-i|--interactive] [--root-reqs] [--] []...
See this image :
[enter image description here](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Xh1rl.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message is indicating that the `allow_url_fopen` setting in your PHP configuration (`php.ini`) is disabled. This setting needs to be enabled for Composer to be able to download packages from the internet.

Here's how you can enable it:

1. Find your `php.ini` file. If you're not sure where it is, you can run `php --ini` in the terminal to find out.

2. Open the `php.ini` file in a text editor.

3. Find the line that says `allow_url_fopen = Off` or `;allow_url_fopen = On`. The semicolon at the beginning of the line means that the line is commented out.

4. Change this line to `allow_url_fopen = On`. If the line was commented out, also remove the semicolon at the beginning.

5. Save the `php.ini` file and close it.

6. Restart your web server for the changes to take effect. If you're using Apache, you can usually do this by running `sudo service apache2 restart` in the terminal.

After doing this, try running `composer update` again. If you're still having trouble, the issue might be that the PHP curl extension is not installed or enabled. You can usually install it by running `sudo apt-get install php-curl` in the terminal, and enable it by adding (or uncommenting) the line `extension=curl` in your `php.ini` file. Don't forget to restart your web server after making these changes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is due to the `allow_url_fopen` setting in your PHP configuration being disabled. This setting is required by Composer to download packages from the internet. 

Here's how you can enable it:

1. Find your `php.ini` file. The location of this file varies depending on your server setup. You can find it by running `php --ini` in your terminal.

2. Open the `php.ini` file in a text editor.

3. Find the line that says `allow_url_fopen = Off` and change it to `allow_url_fopen = On`. If the line doesn't exist, you can add it to the file.

4. Save the changes and close the file.

5. Restart your web server. The command to do this varies depending on your server setup. For Apache, you can usually use `sudo service apache2 restart`.

6. Try running `composer update` again.

If you don't have access to the `php.ini` file or can't restart the server, you may need to contact your hosting provider or server administrator for assistance. 

Also, make sure that the PHP curl extension is installed and enabled, as the warning message suggests. You can do this by adding `extension=curl` to your `php.ini` file and restarting the server. If the extension isn't installed, you may need to install it using your server's package manager or by compiling PHP with the `--with-curl` option.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message is indicating that the PHP setting `allow_url_fopen` is disabled in your server's `php.ini` configuration file. This setting is required by Composer to download packages from the internet.

Here are the steps to enable `allow_url_fopen`:

1. Login to your cPanel.
2. Navigate to the "Select PHP Version" section.
3. Click on the "Switch To PHP Options" link.
4. Find the `allow_url_fopen` option and change it to "On".
5. Click the "Save" button to apply the changes.

If you don't have access to change PHP settings via cPanel, you will need to contact your hosting provider and ask them to enable the `allow_url_fopen` setting for you.

After enabling `allow_url_fopen`, try running `composer update` again. If you still encounter issues, make sure that the PHP `curl` extension is installed and enabled, as the warning message suggests. This can also be done in the "Select PHP Version" section of cPanel.

If you're still having trouble after these steps, please provide more details about your server environment and the exact error messages you're seeing.

--------
