
# Post \#64828762 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64828762/)

## Getting current page url on wp-admin/admin dashboard?

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 7836 (467/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-7-445

Created at 2020-11-13 22:20:10

Tags: `php` `wordpress` `query-variables`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `php` (full parsed tag list: `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Im trying to get the current page url while on the wp-admin/admin dashboard, is it possible?
Im trying to use these codes but i can't seem to get it to work.
```
global $wp;
$current_page = add_query_arg( $wp->query_vars, home_url( $wp->request ) );
```

The output i wanted is like this: `https://example.com/1/wp-admin/admin.php?page=test`
But instead, the output turns like this: `/1/wp-admin/admin.php?page=test&=https://example.com/1`
Any help is greatly appreciated


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The code you are using is more suitable for front-end pages. For admin pages, you can use `admin_url()` function. 

Here is how you can get the current URL in the WordPress admin:

```php
function get_current_admin_url() {
    $scheme = 'http';
    if ( isset( $_SERVER['HTTPS'] ) && $_SERVER['HTTPS'] === 'on' ) {
        $scheme .= 's';
    }
    $host = $_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'];
    $request_uri = $_SERVER['REQUEST_URI'];
    return sprintf( '%s://%s%s', $scheme, $host, $request_uri );
}

$current_admin_url = get_current_admin_url();
```

This function will return the current URL including the scheme (http or https), the host, and the request URI.

Please note that this function will work only if you call it on an admin page, because it uses `$_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']` which contains the full request URI including the path and the query string. If you call it on a front-end page, it will return the URL of that front-end page, not the admin page.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The code you're using is more suitable for front-end pages, not for admin pages. In WordPress, you can use `admin_url()` function to get the URL of the admin area.

If you want to get the current page URL in the admin area, you can use the `$_SERVER` superglobal array. Here's an example:

```php
function get_current_admin_url() {
    $scheme = 'http';
    if ( isset( $_SERVER['HTTPS'] ) && $_SERVER['HTTPS'] === 'on' ) {
        $scheme .= 's';
    }
    $host = $_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'];
    $uri = $_SERVER['REQUEST_URI'];
    $current_url = sprintf( '%s://%s%s', $scheme, $host, $uri );
    return $current_url;
}

$current_admin_url = get_current_admin_url();
```

In this code, `get_current_admin_url()` function constructs the current URL using the `$_SERVER` superglobal. It first checks if HTTPS is enabled, then it gets the host name and the URI, and finally it constructs the URL.

You can then use `$current_admin_url` variable to get the current admin URL.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The code you're using is for getting the current URL of a front-end page, not for a page in the admin area. 

In the WordPress admin area, you can use `admin_url()` function to get the current page URL. Here's an example:

```php
global $pagenow;
$current_page = admin_url($pagenow);
```

This will give you the current admin page URL without any query parameters. If you want to include the query parameters, you can use `$_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']`:

```php
$current_page = admin_url() . $_SERVER['REQUEST_URI'];
```

This will give you the full URL of the current admin page, including any query parameters.

Please note that `$_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']` includes the leading `/` before `wp-admin`, so you don't need to add it manually. 

Also, be aware that `$_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']` can be manipulated by the user, so it's not safe to use without sanitizing if you're going to use its value in a database query or in output. If you're just using it to get the current URL for display purposes, it should be fine.

--------
