
# Post \#62055988 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62055988/)

## Golang: A map Interface, how to print key and value

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 46999 (172/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-460

Created at 2020-05-28 02:29:14

Tags: `go` `interface`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I get a map interface, like :

```
getUsersAppInfo := usersAppInfo.GetUsersAppInfo(getUserId)
```


then I print :

```
fmt.Println(getUsersAppInfo)
```


get this, like :

```
[map[appId:2 fcmServerKey:keyTestTest name:com.app]]
```


Ask : How to just print the value, like

```
appId value is 2 
name value is com.app 
fcmServerKey:keyTestTest value is keyTestTest
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can achieve this by iterating over the map and printing the key and value. Here's how you can do it in Go:

```go
for key, value := range getUsersAppInfo[0] {
    fmt.Printf("%s value is %v\n", key, value)
}
```

This code will iterate over each key-value pair in the map and print them in the format you specified. The `[0]` index is used to access the first element of the slice, which is a map in your case.

Please note that the order of the output might not be the same as the order in which the elements are defined in the map, as Go's map type doesn't preserve order.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can achieve this by iterating over the map and printing each key-value pair. Here is an example of how you can do it:

```go
for key, value := range getUsersAppInfo[0] {
    fmt.Printf("%s value is %v\n", key, value)
}
```

In this code, `getUsersAppInfo[0]` is used to access the first map in the slice. The `range` keyword is used to iterate over each key-value pair in the map. The `Printf` function is used to print the key and value in the desired format.

Please note that this assumes `getUsersAppInfo` is a slice of maps. If it's a single map, you can remove the `[0]` index.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can achieve this by iterating over the map and printing the key and value. Here's how you can do it:

```go
for key, value := range getUsersAppInfo[0] {
    fmt.Printf("%s value is %v\n", key, value)
}
```

This code will iterate over each key-value pair in the map and print them in the format you specified. 

Please note that `getUsersAppInfo[0]` is used because `getUsersAppInfo` seems to be a slice of maps based on your output. If it's just a single map, you can remove the `[0]`.

Also, the `%v` verb is a placeholder that will be replaced by the value. It's a general placeholder that can print any type. If you know the type of the value, you can use a more specific placeholder (like `%s` for strings, `%d` for integers, etc.).

--------
