
# Post \#52266332 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52266332/)

## Manually fetch dependencies from go.mod?

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 83052 (103/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-451

Created at 2018-09-10 22:29:46

Tags: `go` `go-modules`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm using go 1.11 with module support. I understand that the go tool now installs dependencies automatically on build/install. I also understand the reasoning.

I'm using docker to build my binaries. In many other ecosystems its common to copy over your dependency manifest (package.json, requirements.txt, etc) and install dependencies as a separate stage from build. This takes advantage of docker's layer caching, and makes rebuilds much faster since generally code changes vastly outnumber dependency changes.

I was wondering if vgo has any way to do this?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can use the `go mod download` command to download the dependencies specified in your `go.mod` file. This command will download the dependencies and cache them in your local module cache, which can be used by subsequent builds.

You can use this command in a separate stage in your Dockerfile to take advantage of Docker's layer caching. Here's an example Dockerfile:

```
# Build stage
FROM golang:1.11 AS build
WORKDIR /app
COPY go.mod go.sum ./
RUN go mod download
COPY . .
RUN go build -o myapp

# Final stage
FROM scratch
COPY --from=build /app/myapp /myapp
ENTRYPOINT ["/myapp"]
```

In this example, the `go mod download` command is run in a separate stage from the actual build. This means that if you make changes to your code and rebuild the image, Docker will only need to rebuild the final stage (which is much faster than rebuilding the entire image).

Note that the `go mod download` command only downloads the dependencies and does not build your application. You will still need to run `go build` (or `go install`) to build your application.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, Go modules (formerly known as vgo) also supports a similar approach to what you described. You can use the `go mod download` command to download the dependencies specified in your `go.mod` file without building your code. This can be useful in a Dockerfile to take advantage of Docker's layer caching.

Here's an example Dockerfile:

```
FROM golang:1.11-alpine

WORKDIR /app

COPY go.mod go.sum ./

RUN go mod download

COPY . .

RUN go build -o myapp

CMD ["./myapp"]
```

In this Dockerfile, we first copy over the `go.mod` and `go.sum` files and run `go mod download` to download the dependencies. Then we copy over the rest of our code and build the binary with `go build`. Finally, we set the command to run our binary.

By separating the dependency download step from the build step, we can take advantage of Docker's layer caching and speed up rebuilds when only code changes are made.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, Go modules (formerly known as vgo) also supports a similar approach to what you described. You can use the `go mod download` command to download all the dependencies listed in your `go.mod` file without building your application. This can be done as a separate stage in your Dockerfile, taking advantage of Docker's layer caching.

Here's an example Dockerfile that demonstrates this approach:

```
# Build stage
FROM golang:1.11 AS build
WORKDIR /app
COPY go.mod go.sum ./
RUN go mod download
COPY . .
RUN go build -o myapp

# Final stage
FROM scratch
COPY --from=build /app/myapp /myapp
ENTRYPOINT ["/myapp"]
```

In this example, the first stage downloads the dependencies using `go mod download`, and then copies the application code and builds the binary. The second stage uses the `scratch` base image, which is an empty image, and copies only the binary from the first stage. This results in a minimal Docker image that only contains the application binary.

By separating the dependency download and build stages, you can take advantage of Docker's layer caching and speed up rebuilds when only the application code changes.

--------
