
# Post \#61845013 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61845013/)

## "package XXX is not in GOROOT" when building a Go project

**Vote**: 156 (32/702) **Views**: 304329 (21/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-458

Created at 2020-05-16 23:35:31

Tags: `go` `goland`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a weird issue that arose when I took a break from this project. Upon starting up Goland, I'm riddled with errors when trying to run my project. 

The specific error, when building one of my packages, is: 
`start.go: package project/game is not in GOROOT (C:\Go\src\project\game)`

I have a folder structure as such under `C:\Users\username`

```
go
|-src
   |-project
        |-game
            |-entity
                 |-whatever.go
            |-game_stuff.go
        |-server
```


and my env vars are as such:

```
GOROOT=C:\Go 
GOPATH=C:\Users\ketchup\go
```


for each of the modules (project/game/entity, project/game, project/server), I did a `git mod init`. 

When building, Goland will try to run this:

```
C:\Go\bin\go.exe build -o C:\Users\ketchup\AppData\Local\Temp\___go_build_project_server.exe project/server
```


and return the error.

Can anyone help me with this issue? Kind of lost since Goland was working fine the last time I opened it. Also not even sure what direction to look at - I'm pretty new to Go and I'm not really sure what documentation to look at :\  Thank you everyone! 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It looks like the error is occurring because the `project/game` package is not in the GOROOT directory. This is because GOROOT is the directory where Go is installed, and it should not be used for storing your own code.

Instead, you should be using the GOPATH directory to store your code. In your case, the GOPATH is set to `C:\Users\ketchup\go`. So, you should move your `project` directory to `C:\Users\ketchup\go\src`.

Once you have moved the `project` directory to the correct location, you should be able to build your project without any issues. 

Also, make sure that you have set the environment variable `GO111MODULE` to `on` to enable Go modules. This will allow you to use modules in your project and manage dependencies more easily. 

You can set this environment variable by running the following command in your terminal:

```
set GO111MODULE=on
```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like the issue is that the package `project/game` is not located in the `GOROOT` directory. This is because `GOROOT` is the directory where Go is installed, and it should not be used for your own projects.

Instead, you should set your `GOPATH` environment variable to the root directory of your Go projects, which in your case is `C:\Users\ketchup\go`. This is where Go will look for your packages.

Once you have set your `GOPATH` correctly, you should move your `project` directory into `C:\Users\ketchup\go\src`. This will make it so that Go can find your packages when you try to build them.

After you have made these changes, you should be able to build your project without any issues.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like the issue is with the import path of your `project/game` package. The error message indicates that Go is looking for the package in the GOROOT directory, which is not where your package is located.

To fix this, you need to make sure that the import path for your `project/game` package is correct. In your case, it should be `project/game` since that is the directory structure you have.

You can check the import path in your Go files by looking at the `import` statements. For example, if you have a file `game_stuff.go` in the `project/game` directory, the import statement should look like this:

```
import "project/game/entity"
```

If the import path is incorrect, you can fix it by updating the import statement in your Go files.

Once you have fixed the import path, try building your project again and see if the error goes away.

--------
