
# Post \#69573113 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69573113/)

## How can I instantiate a non-nil pointer of type argument with generic Go?

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 6071 (502/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-462

Created at 2021-10-14 15:09:03

Tags: `go` `pointers` `generics`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Now that type parameters are available on `golang/go:master`, I decided to give it a try. It seems that I'm running into a limitation I could not find in the [Type Parameters Proposal](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/refs/heads/master/design/43651-type-parameters.md). (Or I must have missed it).
I want to write a function which returns a slice of values of a generic type with the constraint of an interface type. If the passed type is an implementation with a pointer receiver, how can we instantiate it?
```
type SetGetter[V any] interface {
    Set(V)
    Get() V
}

// SetGetterSlice turns a slice of type V into a slice of type T,
// with T.Set() called for each entry in values.
func SetGetterSlice[V any, T SetGetter[V]](values []V) []T {
    out := make([]T, len(values))

    for i, v := range values {
        out[i].Set(v) // panic if T has pointer receiver!
    }

    return out
}
```

When calling the above `SetGetterSlice()` function with the `*Count` type as `T`, this code will panic upon calling `Set(v)`. ([Go2go playground](https://go2goplay.golang.org/p/h-xUzVDIy0p)) To no surprise, as basically the code created a slice of `nil` pointers:
```
// Count implements SetGetter interface
type Count struct {
    x int
}

func (c *Count) Set(x int) { c.x = x }
func (c *Count) Get() int  { return c.x }

func main() {
    ints := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

    sgs := SetGetterSlice[int, *Count](ints)
    
    for _, s := range sgs {
        fmt.Println(s.Get())
    }
}
```


## Variations of the same problem


This ideas won't work, and I can't seem to find any simple way to instantiate the pointed value.

1. out[i] = new(T) will result in a compile failure, as it returns a *T where the type checker wants to see T.
2. Calling *new(T), compiles but will result in the same runtime panic because new(T) returns **Count in this case, where the pointer to Count is still nil.
3. Changing the return type to a slice of pointer to T will result in a compile failure:


```
func SetGetterSlice[V any, T SetGetter[V]](values []V) []*T {
    out := make([]*T, len(values))

    for i, v := range values {
        out[i] = new(T)
        out[i].Set(v) // panic if T has pointer receiver
    }

    return out
}

func main() {
    ints := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

    SetGetterSlice[int, Count](ints)
    // Count does not satisfy SetGetter[V]: wrong method signature
}
```


## Workaround


The only solution I found until now, is to require a [constructor function](https://go2goplay.golang.org/p/-FEF-zpzBqT) to be passed to the generic function. But this just feels wrong and a bit tedious. Why would this be required if `func F(T interface{})() []T` is perfectly valid syntax?
```
func SetGetterSlice[V any, T SetGetter[V]](values []V, constructor func() T) []T {
    out := make([]T, len(values))

    for i, v := range values {
        out[i] = constructor()
        out[i].Set(v)
    }

    return out
}

// ...
func main() {
    ints := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

    SetGetterSlice[int, *Count](ints, func() *Count { return new(Count) })
}
```


## Summary


My questions, in order of priority:

1. Am I overlooking something obvious?
2. Is this a limitation of generics in Go and this is as good as it gets?
3. Is this limitation known or should I raise an issue at the Go project?




----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

1. No, you are not overlooking anything obvious. The issue you are facing is a known limitation of the current implementation of generics in Go.
2. Yes, this is a limitation of generics in Go. The current implementation does not support the instantiation of types with pointer receivers. The workaround you found with the constructor function is currently the best solution.
3. This limitation is known and has been discussed in the Type Parameters Proposal. You can find more information in the "Pointer receivers" section of the proposal. However, if you feel that this limitation is causing significant issues for your use case, you can raise an issue in the Go project to bring attention to it.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

1. No, you are not overlooking anything obvious. The behavior you are experiencing is a known limitation of the current implementation of generics in Go.

2. Yes, this is a limitation of the current implementation of generics in Go. The current implementation does not support the instantiation of types with pointer receivers. As a result, the only way to work around this limitation is to use a constructor function to create instances of the type.

3. This limitation is known and has been discussed in the Go community. You can find more information about this limitation and the current state of generics in Go by visiting the Go issue tracker and the Go forums. However, it is always a good idea to raise an issue if you believe that there is a bug or a limitation that needs to be addressed.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

1. No, you are not overlooking anything obvious. The issue you are facing is a known limitation of the current implementation of generics in Go.
2. Yes, this is a limitation of the current implementation of generics in Go. The current implementation does not support the instantiation of types with pointer receivers.
3. This limitation is known and has been discussed in the Type Parameters Proposal. However, it is always a good idea to raise an issue at the Go project to ensure that the developers are aware of the issue and can prioritize it accordingly.

--------
