
# Post \#69573113 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69573113/)

## How can I instantiate a non-nil pointer of type argument with generic Go?

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 6071 (502/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-462

Created at 2021-10-14 15:09:03

Tags: `go` `pointers` `generics`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Now that type parameters are available on `golang/go:master`, I decided to give it a try. It seems that I'm running into a limitation I could not find in the [Type Parameters Proposal](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/refs/heads/master/design/43651-type-parameters.md). (Or I must have missed it).
I want to write a function which returns a slice of values of a generic type with the constraint of an interface type. If the passed type is an implementation with a pointer receiver, how can we instantiate it?
```
type SetGetter[V any] interface {
    Set(V)
    Get() V
}

// SetGetterSlice turns a slice of type V into a slice of type T,
// with T.Set() called for each entry in values.
func SetGetterSlice[V any, T SetGetter[V]](values []V) []T {
    out := make([]T, len(values))

    for i, v := range values {
        out[i].Set(v) // panic if T has pointer receiver!
    }

    return out
}
```

When calling the above `SetGetterSlice()` function with the `*Count` type as `T`, this code will panic upon calling `Set(v)`. ([Go2go playground](https://go2goplay.golang.org/p/h-xUzVDIy0p)) To no surprise, as basically the code created a slice of `nil` pointers:
```
// Count implements SetGetter interface
type Count struct {
    x int
}

func (c *Count) Set(x int) { c.x = x }
func (c *Count) Get() int  { return c.x }

func main() {
    ints := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

    sgs := SetGetterSlice[int, *Count](ints)
    
    for _, s := range sgs {
        fmt.Println(s.Get())
    }
}
```


## Variations of the same problem


This ideas won't work, and I can't seem to find any simple way to instantiate the pointed value.

1. out[i] = new(T) will result in a compile failure, as it returns a *T where the type checker wants to see T.
2. Calling *new(T), compiles but will result in the same runtime panic because new(T) returns **Count in this case, where the pointer to Count is still nil.
3. Changing the return type to a slice of pointer to T will result in a compile failure:


```
func SetGetterSlice[V any, T SetGetter[V]](values []V) []*T {
    out := make([]*T, len(values))

    for i, v := range values {
        out[i] = new(T)
        out[i].Set(v) // panic if T has pointer receiver
    }

    return out
}

func main() {
    ints := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

    SetGetterSlice[int, Count](ints)
    // Count does not satisfy SetGetter[V]: wrong method signature
}
```


## Workaround


The only solution I found until now, is to require a [constructor function](https://go2goplay.golang.org/p/-FEF-zpzBqT) to be passed to the generic function. But this just feels wrong and a bit tedious. Why would this be required if `func F(T interface{})() []T` is perfectly valid syntax?
```
func SetGetterSlice[V any, T SetGetter[V]](values []V, constructor func() T) []T {
    out := make([]T, len(values))

    for i, v := range values {
        out[i] = constructor()
        out[i].Set(v)
    }

    return out
}

// ...
func main() {
    ints := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

    SetGetterSlice[int, *Count](ints, func() *Count { return new(Count) })
}
```


## Summary


My questions, in order of priority:

1. Am I overlooking something obvious?
2. Is this a limitation of generics in Go and this is as good as it gets?
3. Is this limitation known or should I raise an issue at the Go project?




----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

1. You're not overlooking something obvious. This is a limitation of the current generics design in Go. The issue arises from the fact that Go's method sets are different for values and pointers. When you define a method on a pointer, it's not part of the method set of the value type. This is why you can't call `Set(v)` on a nil pointer.

2. Yes, this is a limitation of generics in Go as they currently stand. The workaround you've found, using a constructor function, is a common pattern in Go when you need to create instances of a type that satisfies an interface, but you don't know the concrete type at compile time.

3. This limitation is known and is a result of the design decisions made in the Go language. It's always worth raising an issue if you think there's a way to improve the language, but in this case, it's likely that the Go team is already aware of this issue. 

In conclusion, your workaround is currently the best way to handle this situation in Go. It's a bit more verbose, but it's explicit and clear about what's happening, which is a characteristic of Go code.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

1. You are not overlooking anything obvious. The issue you are facing is due to the fact that Go's type system does not provide a way to create an instance of a generic type parameter. This is a limitation of the current design of generics in Go.

2. Yes, this is a limitation of generics in Go. The workaround you found, using a constructor function, is currently the best way to handle this situation. It is not ideal, but it is the only way to create an instance of a generic type parameter in Go.

3. This limitation is known and is a result of the design decisions made in the creation of generics for Go. It is unlikely that raising an issue would result in any changes, as this is not a bug but a design decision. However, you could still raise an issue to discuss this limitation and see if there are any plans to address it in the future.

In conclusion, the current design of generics in Go does not provide a way to create an instance of a generic type parameter. This is a known limitation and the workaround you found, using a constructor function, is currently the best way to handle this situation.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

1. You're not overlooking anything obvious. The issue you're facing is due to the fact that Go's type system doesn't have a way to express "a type that can be new'd" as a constraint. This is why you can't use `new(T)` to create a new instance of `T` inside your generic function. 

2. Yes, this is a limitation of generics in Go. The type parameters proposal does not include a way to express "a type that can be new'd" as a constraint. This is why you have to pass a constructor function to your generic function.

3. This limitation is known and is a result of the design decisions made in the type parameters proposal. You can certainly raise an issue on the Go project if you feel this is a significant limitation, but it's likely that the Go team is already aware of this issue.

The workaround you've found, passing a constructor function, is currently the best way to handle this situation. It's a bit more verbose, but it's explicit and clear about what's happening. 

Remember that Go's philosophy is to prefer simplicity and clarity over brevity or cleverness. While it might feel a bit tedious to have to pass a constructor function, it makes it very clear what's happening: a new instance of `T` is being created for each value in the input slice. This explicitness can make your code easier to understand and maintain in the long run.

--------
