
# Post \#55503167 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55503167/)

## go build can't find a revision

**Vote**: 22 (248/702) **Views**: 67459 (129/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-459

Created at 2019-04-03 19:46:05

Tags: `go` `github` `module`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I developed a repo on computer A and created a go.mod/go.sum that I checked in.

I pull that repo with the go.mod/go.sum files on computer B, but when I try to build the program, the module constraints can't be satisfied.

```
$ go build
go: finding github.ibm.com/kms/key-protect-client v0.1.5
go: finding golang.org/x/tools v0.0.0-20180221164845-07fd8470d635
go: github.ibm.com/kms/key-protect-client@v0.1.5: unknown revision v0.1.5
go: error loading module requirements
```


The repo that is failing is a private repo, and for some reason it doesn't get downloaded to the module cache. On another computer, the dependencies are downloaded and the build succeeds. I am building another private repo in that same domain, so I know that my github credentials give me access to these repos. But for some reason, the go module system can't get to the dependent repo.

I cannot find more information how to debug this.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It sounds like the issue might be related to authentication. Here are a few things you can try to debug the issue:

1. Check that your GitHub credentials are properly configured on computer B. You can do this by running `git config --list` and checking that your `user.name` and `user.email` are set correctly. You can also try running `git clone` on the dependent repo to see if you can access it directly.

2. Check that your `GOPRIVATE` environment variable is set correctly. If the dependent repo is private, you need to set `GOPRIVATE` to include the domain name. For example, if the dependent repo is hosted on `github.ibm.com`, you would set `GOPRIVATE=github.ibm.com`.

3. Check that your `GONOPROXY` and `GONOSUMDB` environment variables are set correctly. If the dependent repo is hosted on a private server, you need to set `GONOPROXY` to exclude the server from the proxy lookup. You also need to set `GONOSUMDB` to exclude the server from the checksum database lookup. For example, if the dependent repo is hosted on `github.ibm.com`, you would set `GONOPROXY=github.ibm.com` and `GONOSUMDB=github.ibm.com`.

4. Check that your `go.mod` file is correct. Make sure that the version constraint for the dependent repo is correct and that the module path is correct.

If none of these steps help, you can try running `go env` on both computers and comparing the output to see if there are any differences that might be causing the issue. You can also try running `go mod download` to force the download of all dependencies and see if that resolves the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the issue is related to the module cache on computer B. The module cache is where Go stores downloaded modules and their versions. If the module cache is not properly set up or if the modules are not downloaded correctly, it can cause issues like the one you are experiencing.

Here are some steps you can take to debug this issue:

1. Check if the module cache is properly set up on computer B. You can do this by running the following command:

   ```
   go env GOMODCACHE
   ```

   This should output the path to the module cache directory. If the directory does not exist or is not set up correctly, you may need to set it up manually.

2. Check if the module is downloaded correctly on computer B. You can do this by running the following command:

   ```
   go list -m github.ibm.com/kms/key-protect-client@v0.1.5
   ```

   This should output information about the module, including its version and dependencies. If the module is not downloaded correctly, you may need to manually download it using the following command:

   ```
   go get github.ibm.com/kms/key-protect-client@v0.1.5
   ```

3. Check if the module is accessible from computer B. You can do this by trying to access the module's repository URL from computer B using a web browser or a command-line tool like curl. If you cannot access the repository, it may be a network issue or an access issue.

4. Check if the module is using the correct version. It's possible that the module's version has changed since you last downloaded it on computer A. You can check the latest version of the module by running the following command:

   ```
   go list -m -versions github.ibm.com/kms/key-protect-client
   ```

   This should output a list of available versions for the module. If the version you are using is outdated, you may need to update it to the latest version.

I hope these steps help you debug the issue. Let me know if you have any further questions or concerns.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the issue is related to the module cache on computer B. The module cache is where Go stores downloaded modules and their versions. If the module cache is not up-to-date or corrupted, it can cause issues like the one you are experiencing.

Here are some steps you can take to debug the issue:

1. Check the module cache on computer B: You can check the module cache by running the following command:

   ```
   go env GOMODCACHE
   ```

   This will print the path to the module cache. Check if the module that is failing to download is present in the cache. If it is not, then the module was not downloaded correctly.

2. Clear the module cache: If the module is not present in the cache or the cache is corrupted, you can clear the cache by running the following command:

   ```
   go clean -modcache
   ```

   This will delete the entire module cache. After running this command, try building the program again.

3. Check the network connection: If the module cache is not the issue, then it could be a network issue. Check if computer B has access to the internet and can connect to the private repo. You can try running the following command to download the module manually:

   ```
   go get github.ibm.com/kms/key-protect-client@v0.1.5
   ```

   If this command fails, then there is likely an issue with the network connection or access to the private repo.

4. Check the version of Go: Make sure that both computers are running the same version of Go. If one computer is running an older version of Go, it may not be able to download the module correctly.

I hope these steps help you debug the issue. Let me know if you have any further questions or concerns.

--------
