
# Post \#67733156 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67733156/)

## convert int to ascii - more than one character in rune literal

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 5318 (513/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-468

Created at 2021-05-28 05:02:45

Tags: `go`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How do I convert into to its ASCII?
In java it's `System.out.println((char)(49)); //gives 1`
I tried
```
a := '42'
fmt.Println(rune(a))
```

I get `more than one character in rune literal`


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're getting is because you're trying to convert a string to a rune, which is not allowed. A rune in Go is a type that represents a Unicode code point. 

If you want to convert an integer to its ASCII representation, you can do it like this:

```go
a := 42
fmt.Printf("%c", a) // prints *
```

This will print the ASCII character that corresponds to the number 42, which is '*'.

If you want to convert a string that represents a number to its ASCII representation, you can do it like this:

```go
a := "42"
i, err := strconv.Atoi(a)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println(err)
} else {
    fmt.Printf("%c", i) // prints *
}
```

This will convert the string "42" to the integer 42, and then print the ASCII character that corresponds to that number.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is because you're trying to convert a string to a rune, which is not allowed. A rune in Go represents a Unicode code point, and it's an alias for `int32`. 

If you want to convert an integer to its corresponding ASCII character in Go, you can do it like this:

```go
a := 42
fmt.Printf("%c", a) // prints *
```

If you want to convert a string that represents an integer to its corresponding ASCII character, you need to convert the string to an integer first:

```go
a := "42"
i, err := strconv.Atoi(a)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println(err)
} else {
    fmt.Printf("%c", i) // prints *
}
```

In this code, `strconv.Atoi` function is used to convert a string to an integer. If the conversion is successful, it prints the ASCII character corresponding to the integer. If the conversion fails (for example, if the string cannot be parsed as an integer), it prints an error message.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Go, you can convert an integer to its ASCII representation using the `rune` type. However, you're trying to convert a string to a rune, which is causing the error. 

If you want to convert an integer to its ASCII representation, you should do it like this:

```go
a := 49
fmt.Println(string(a)) // gives 1
```

In this case, `a` is an integer, and you're converting it to its ASCII representation using the `string` function.

If you want to convert a string containing a number to its ASCII representation, you should first convert the string to an integer:

```go
a := "49"
i, err := strconv.Atoi(a)
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println(err)
} else {
    fmt.Println(string(i)) // gives 1
}
```

In this case, `strconv.Atoi` is used to convert the string to an integer, and then the integer is converted to its ASCII representation.

--------
