
# Post \#52266332 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52266332/)

## Manually fetch dependencies from go.mod?

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 83052 (103/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-451

Created at 2018-09-10 22:29:46

Tags: `go` `go-modules`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm using go 1.11 with module support. I understand that the go tool now installs dependencies automatically on build/install. I also understand the reasoning.

I'm using docker to build my binaries. In many other ecosystems its common to copy over your dependency manifest (package.json, requirements.txt, etc) and install dependencies as a separate stage from build. This takes advantage of docker's layer caching, and makes rebuilds much faster since generally code changes vastly outnumber dependency changes.

I was wondering if vgo has any way to do this?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, Go modules do support this kind of workflow. Here's how you can do it:

1. Copy your `go.mod` and `go.sum` files into the Docker image.

2. Run `go mod download`. This command will download all the dependencies specified in your `go.mod` and `go.sum` files. This will be cached as a separate Docker layer, as long as your `go.mod` and `go.sum` files don't change.

3. Copy the rest of your source code into the Docker image and run `go build`.

Here's a sample Dockerfile that demonstrates this:

```Dockerfile
# Start from the latest golang base image
FROM golang:latest

# Add Maintainer Info
LABEL maintainer="Your Name <your-email@example.com>"

# Set the Current Working Directory inside the container
WORKDIR /app

# Copy go mod and sum files
COPY go.mod go.sum ./

# Download all dependencies. Dependencies will be cached if the go.mod and go.sum files are not changed
RUN go mod download

# Copy the source from the current directory to the Working Directory inside the container
COPY . .

# Build the Go app
RUN go build -o main .

# Expose port 8080 to the outside world
EXPOSE 8080

# Command to run the executable
CMD ["./main"]
```

This Dockerfile will take advantage of Docker's layer caching. The `go mod download` step will be cached until your `go.mod` or `go.sum` files change. This will speed up your Docker builds if your dependencies don't change often.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can take advantage of Docker's layer caching with Go modules. Here's how you can do it:

1. Copy your `go.mod` and `go.sum` files into your Docker image.
2. Run `go mod download`. This will download all the dependencies specified in your `go.mod` and `go.sum` files.
3. Copy the rest of your source code into the Docker image.
4. Build your application.

Here's a Dockerfile that demonstrates this:

```Dockerfile
FROM golang:1.11

WORKDIR /app

# Copy go mod and sum files 
COPY go.mod go.sum ./

# Download all dependencies. Dependencies will be cached if the go.mod and go.sum files are not changed 
RUN go mod download

# Copy the source from the current directory to the Working Directory inside the docker container 
COPY . .

# Build the Go app
RUN CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=linux go build -a -installsuffix cgo -o main .

CMD ["./main"]
```

This Dockerfile will take advantage of Docker's layer caching. The `go mod download` step will be cached unless your `go.mod` or `go.sum` files change. This can significantly speed up your Docker builds if your dependencies don't change often.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, Go modules do support this kind of workflow. Here's how you can do it:

1. Copy your `go.mod` and `go.sum` files into the Docker container.

```Dockerfile
COPY go.mod go.sum ./
```

2. Download the dependencies. This will be cached if your `go.mod` and `go.sum` files do not change.

```Dockerfile
RUN go mod download
```

3. Copy your source code into the Docker container and build your application. This step will be re-run every time your source code changes.

```Dockerfile
COPY . .
RUN go build -o myapp
```

So, a full Dockerfile might look like this:

```Dockerfile
FROM golang:1.11

WORKDIR /app

COPY go.mod go.sum ./
RUN go mod download

COPY . .
RUN go build -o myapp

CMD ["./myapp"]
```

This Dockerfile will take advantage of Docker's layer caching: the `go mod download` step will only be re-run when `go.mod` or `go.sum` files change.

--------
