
# Post \#70586511 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70586511/)

## protoc-gen-go: unable to determine Go import path for "simple.proto"

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 18045 (319/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-469

Created at 2022-01-05 00:22:54

Tags: `go` `protocol-buffers` `protoc`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have simple proto file with following content.
```
syntax="proto3";

package main;

message Person {
      string name = 1;
      int32 age = 2; 
}
```

I am trying to generate go code for it using protoc. I run:
```
protoc --go_out=. simple.proto
```

I receive following error:
```
protoc-gen-go: unable to determine Go import path for "simple.proto"

Please specify either:
        • a "go_package" option in the .proto source file, or
        • a "M" argument on the command line.
```

`main.go`, `go.mod` and `simple.proto` is in the same folder. Both `protoc` and `protoc-gen-go` are defined in PATH enviroement.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that you need to specify the Go package name for your generated code. You can do this by adding a `go_package` option to your `.proto` file.

For example, you can add the following line to your `simple.proto` file:

```
option go_package = "github.com/your-username/your-repo/your-package-name";
```

Replace `your-username`, `your-repo`, and `your-package-name` with your own values.

Then, run the `protoc` command again with the `--go_out` flag and the `M` argument:

```
protoc --go_out=. --go_opt=paths=source_relative --go-grpc_out=. --go-grpc_opt=paths=source_relative simple.proto
```

This should generate the Go code for your `Person` message in the current directory.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that you need to specify the Go package name for the generated code. You can do this by adding the `option go_package` to your `simple.proto` file.

For example, if you want the package name to be `example.com/myproject/mypackage`, you can add the following line to the top of your `simple.proto` file:

```
option go_package = "example.com/myproject/mypackage";
```

Then, when you run the `protoc` command, you can specify the package name using the `-I` flag:

```
protoc -I=. --go_out=. simple.proto
```

This should generate the Go code without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message suggests that you need to specify the Go package name for the generated code. You can do this by adding the `option go_package` to your proto file. 

For example, if you want the Go package name to be `mypackage`, you can modify your proto file as follows:

```
syntax="proto3";

option go_package = "mypackage";

package main;

message Person {
      string name = 1;
      int32 age = 2; 
}
```

Then, run the `protoc` command again with the `--go_out` flag and the `M` argument to specify the Go package name:

```
protoc --go_out=. --go_opt=paths=source_relative --go-grpc_out=. --go-grpc_opt=paths=source_relative simple.proto
```

Note that I also added the `--go_opt=paths=source_relative` and `--go-grpc_opt=paths=source_relative` flags to generate the Go code with import paths relative to the source directory. This is a recommended practice to avoid import path collisions.

--------
