
# Post \#71376627 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71376627/)

## In Go generics, how to use a common method for types in a union constraint?

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 6741 (488/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-463

Created at 2022-03-07 05:05:35

Tags: `go` `generics`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to understand the usage of the type union constraint in Go generics (v1.18). Here is the code I tried:
```
type A struct {
}

type B struct {
}

type AB interface {
    *A | *B
}

func (a *A) some() bool {
    return true
}

func (b *B) some() bool {
    return false
}

func some[T AB](x T) bool {
    return x.some()   // <- error
}
```

The compiler complains:
> `x.some` undefined (type `T` has no field or method some)
Why is that? If I cannot use a shared method of type `*A` and `*B`, what's the point of defining types union `*A | *B` at all?
(Apparently I can define an interface with the shared method and directly use that. But in my particular use case I want to restrict to the certain types explicitly.)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The union type constraint in Go generics (v1.18) is used to specify that a type parameter can be one of several types. However, it doesn't mean that the type parameter will have the methods of those types. It's just a constraint on the type parameter.

In your code, the `AB` type is a union of `*A` and `*B`. But when you use `T AB` in the `some` function, it doesn't mean that `T` will have the `some` method. It just means that `T` can be either `*A` or `*B`.

If you want to call a method on `T`, you need to define that method in an interface and use that interface as the type parameter. Here's how you can do it:

```go
type A struct {
}

type B struct {
}

type SomeInterface interface {
    some() bool
}

type AB interface {
    SomeInterface
    ~*A | ~*B
}

func (a *A) some() bool {
    return true
}

func (b *B) some() bool {
    return false
}

func some[T AB](x T) bool {
    return x.some()
}
```

In this code, `SomeInterface` is an interface that has the `some` method. `AB` is a type that is a union of `*A` and `*B` and also implements `SomeInterface`. The `some` function takes a type parameter `T` that is `AB`, which means it can be either `*A` or `*B` and has the `some` method.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The type union constraint `*A | *B` in Go generics (v1.18) is used to specify that a type parameter can be one of several types. However, it doesn't imply that the methods of these types are accessible through the type parameter. 

In your case, the `some` method is not accessible through the type parameter `T` because `T` is not guaranteed to have a `some` method. Even though both `*A` and `*B` have a `some` method, the type union constraint `*A | *B` doesn't mean that `T` has a `some` method. 

The type union constraint is useful when you want to write a function that can take arguments of several types and you want to perform operations that are valid for all these types. However, if you want to call methods on these types, you need to use a type switch or type assertion to determine the actual type of the argument and then call the method on it.

Here is how you can modify your code to make it work:

```go
type A struct {
}

type B struct {
}

type AB interface {
    *A | *B
}

func (a *A) some() bool {
    return true
}

func (b *B) some() bool {
    return false
}

func some[T AB](x T) bool {
    switch v := x.(type) {
    case *A:
        return v.some()
    case *B:
        return v.some()
    default:
        panic("unexpected type")
    }
}
```

In this code, the `some` function uses a type switch to determine the actual type of `x` and then calls the `some` method on it.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The type union constraint in Go generics (v1.18) is used to specify that a type parameter can be one of several types. However, it does not allow you to call methods that are common to those types. This is because Go's type system is static and does not support dynamic dispatch on type parameters.

In your code, the `AB` interface is a type union of `*A` and `*B`. But when you try to call the `some` method on a value of type `T` (which is constrained to be `AB`), the compiler doesn't know which `some` method to call, because `T` could be either `*A` or `*B`. This is why you get the error message "x.some undefined (type T has no field or method some)".

If you want to call a method that is common to several types, you need to define an interface that includes that method, and then use that interface as the type constraint. Here's how you can modify your code to make it work:

```go
type A struct {
}

type B struct {
}

type Some interface {
    some() bool
}

type AB interface {
    Some
    ~*A | ~*B
}

func (a *A) some() bool {
    return true
}

func (b *B) some() bool {
    return false
}

func some[T AB](x T) bool {
    return x.some()
}
```

In this code, the `Some` interface includes the `some` method. The `AB` interface includes `Some` and is a type union of `*A` and `*B`. The `some` function takes a parameter of type `T`, which is constrained to be `AB`, and it can call the `some` method on `x` because `T` is guaranteed to implement `Some`.

--------
