
# Post \#69343900 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69343900/)

## Cannot run debug Go using VSCode on Mac M1

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 15967 (343/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-457

Created at 2021-09-27 08:58:44

Tags: `go` `visual-studio-code` `vscode-debugger` `apple-m1`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I found a topic that encounter the same problem ([Can't debug Golang in vscode apple m1](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67637872/cant-debug-golang-in-vscode-apple-m1)) but I'm not sure it's an old solution or not because I'm using the Go version
```
go1.17.1 darwin/arm64
```

with
```
dlv version 1.7.2
```

and
```
VSCode version 1.60.2 (arm64)
```

on
```
Mac M1 BigSur (11.6)
```

when I run debug (`fn+f5`) a Debug console shows:
```
Starting: /Users/username/go/bin/dlv-dap dap --check-go-version=false --listen=127.0.0.1:53115 --log-dest=3 from /Users/username/go/src/project-name
DAP server listening at: 127.0.0.1:53115
```

and there is a Pop-up error:
```
Failed to launch: could not launch process: can not run under Rosetta, check that the installed build of Go is right for your CPU architecture
```

I have tried downgrade go version to 1.16.8 arm64 with dlv 1.6.1 but still got the same error.
I can use go build successfully on both versions.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the issue is related to the fact that the debugger is not able to run under Rosetta, which is required for running x86_64 binaries on Apple M1 machines. One possible solution is to install the arm64 version of dlv-dap, which is compatible with Apple M1 machines.

You can try the following steps to install the arm64 version of dlv-dap:

1. Uninstall the existing version of dlv-dap by running the following command in the terminal:

   ```
   go clean -modcache
   go get github.com/golang/vscode-go/tools/gopls@latest
   go get github.com/go-delve/delve/cmd/dlv@latest
   ```

2. Download the arm64 version of dlv-dap from the official repository by running the following command in the terminal:

   ```
   GOARCH=arm64 go get github.com/golang/vscode-go/tools/dlv-dap@latest
   ```

3. Update the launch.json file in your VSCode project to use the arm64 version of dlv-dap. You can do this by adding the following configuration:

   ```
   "debugAdapter": "dlv-dap",
   "debugAdapterPath": "${workspaceFolder}/bin/dlv-dap",
   ```

   Make sure to replace `${workspaceFolder}` with the actual path to your project folder.

4. Save the changes to the launch.json file and try running the debugger again.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the issue is related to the fact that the debugger is not able to run under Rosetta, which is required for running applications built for x86 architecture on Apple M1. 

One solution you can try is to install the latest version of Go (1.17.2 as of now) that has native support for Apple M1 architecture. You can download it from the official Go website. 

Once you have installed the latest version of Go, you can try running the debugger again. If the issue persists, you can try the following steps:

1. Open the terminal and navigate to your project directory.
2. Run the following command to set the `GOARCH` environment variable to `arm64`:

   ```
   export GOARCH=arm64
   ```

3. Run the debugger again using the `fn+f5` shortcut.

This should force the debugger to use the `arm64` architecture and avoid the Rosetta-related issue. 

If the issue still persists, you can try updating the `delve` debugger to the latest version (1.7.3 as of now) using the following command:

```
go get github.com/go-delve/delve/cmd/dlv@latest
```

Then, try running the debugger again. 

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the issue is related to running the debugger under Rosetta, which is not supported by the debugger. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Make sure that you have installed the latest version of the Go extension for VS Code.

2. Check that you have the correct version of Go installed for your CPU architecture. You can check this by running the following command in your terminal:

   ```
   go env GOARCH
   ```

   This should return `arm64` for your M1 Mac.

3. Try running VS Code natively on your M1 Mac instead of under Rosetta. You can do this by right-clicking on the VS Code app icon and selecting "Get Info". Then, check the "Open using Rosetta" option to disable it.

4. If none of the above steps work, you can try using a different debugger like Delve instead of dlv. You can install Delve by running the following command in your terminal:

   ```
   go get github.com/go-delve/delve/cmd/dlv
   ```

   Then, update your launch configuration in VS Code to use Delve instead of dlv.

I hope this helps you resolve the issue. Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
