
# Post \#61845013 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61845013/)

## "package XXX is not in GOROOT" when building a Go project

**Vote**: 156 (32/702) **Views**: 304329 (21/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-458

Created at 2020-05-16 23:35:31

Tags: `go` `goland`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a weird issue that arose when I took a break from this project. Upon starting up Goland, I'm riddled with errors when trying to run my project. 

The specific error, when building one of my packages, is: 
`start.go: package project/game is not in GOROOT (C:\Go\src\project\game)`

I have a folder structure as such under `C:\Users\username`

```
go
|-src
   |-project
        |-game
            |-entity
                 |-whatever.go
            |-game_stuff.go
        |-server
```


and my env vars are as such:

```
GOROOT=C:\Go 
GOPATH=C:\Users\ketchup\go
```


for each of the modules (project/game/entity, project/game, project/server), I did a `git mod init`. 

When building, Goland will try to run this:

```
C:\Go\bin\go.exe build -o C:\Users\ketchup\AppData\Local\Temp\___go_build_project_server.exe project/server
```


and return the error.

Can anyone help me with this issue? Kind of lost since Goland was working fine the last time I opened it. Also not even sure what direction to look at - I'm pretty new to Go and I'm not really sure what documentation to look at :\  Thank you everyone! 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is because Go is looking for your package in the wrong place. It's looking in the GOROOT directory, which is where the Go standard library is located. Your code, however, is in the GOPATH directory.

The issue is likely due to the fact that you're using Go modules, but your code is inside your GOPATH. As of Go 1.11, Go introduced a new concept of 'modules' which allows code to live outside of the GOPATH.

Here are a few steps you can take to resolve this issue:

1. Move your project outside of the GOPATH. You can place it anywhere else on your system. For example, you could move it to `C:\Users\username\myproject`.

2. Navigate to the root directory of your project (where your go.mod file is located) and run your Go commands from there. For example, if you moved your project to `C:\Users\username\myproject`, you would open a terminal, navigate to that directory, and run your commands.

3. Ensure that your GoLand IDE is correctly configured to use Go modules. You can do this by going to `File > Settings > Go > Go Modules (vgo)` and ensuring that the `Enable Go Modules (vgo) integration` checkbox is checked.

4. If you're importing packages from within your own project, make sure you're using the full path from the module root. For example, if you have a module named `project`, and you're trying to import code from the `game` package, you would use `import "project/game"`.

5. Finally, make sure your `go.mod` file is correctly set up. It should be in the root directory of your project, and it should have a module directive with the name of your module. For example, if your module is named `project`, the first line of your `go.mod` file should be `module project`.

After making these changes, try running your Go build command again. It should now be able to find your packages correctly.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is because Go is looking for your package in the wrong place. It's looking in the GOROOT directory, which is where the Go standard library is stored, not your own code.

The issue is likely related to the transition from GOPATH to Go modules. Go 1.11 introduced the concept of 'modules', an alternative to GOPATH with integrated versioning. Since Go 1.13, module mode is the default.

Here are some steps to resolve the issue:

1. Move your project outside of the GOPATH. With Go modules, you no longer need to work inside GOPATH. So, you can move your project to another directory, for example `C:\Users\username\myproject`.

2. Initialize a new module in the root directory of your project. Navigate to your project's root directory in the terminal and run `go mod init github.com/username/myproject`. Replace `github.com/username/myproject` with your own module path. This command creates a `go.mod` file in your project's root directory.

3. Open your project in Goland again. Now, Goland should recognize your project as a Go module and build it correctly.

If you still face issues, check the following:

- Make sure you're using a recent version of Go (at least 1.13) and Goland (2019.3 or later) that have good support for Go modules.
- Check if the Go environment in Goland is correctly set up. Go to `File > Settings > Go > GOPATH` and make sure the `Use GOPATH that's defined in system environment` is checked and the `GOPATH` is correctly set to `C:\Users\username\go`.
- Check if the Go modules integration is enabled in Goland. Go to `File > Settings > Go > Go Modules (vgo)` and make sure the `Enable Go Modules (vgo) integration` is checked.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is because Go is trying to find your package in the GOROOT directory, but it should be looking in the GOPATH directory. 

Since Go 1.11, the Go team introduced a new concept called 'Go Modules' which is a dependency management system that makes dependency version information explicit and easier to manage. This is likely the cause of the issue you're experiencing.

Here are some steps to resolve your issue:

1. Make sure you're using Go 1.11 or later. You can check your Go version by running `go version` in your terminal.

2. Enable Go Modules. You can do this by setting the environment variable `GO111MODULE` to `on`. In your terminal, you can do this by running `set GO111MODULE=on` on Windows or `export GO111MODULE=on` on Unix systems.

3. Initialize a new module or migrate existing code to use modules. In your case, since you already ran `go mod init` in your modules, you can skip this step.

4. Now, you should be able to build your project. Try running `go build` in your project directory.

5. If you're still having issues, try clearing your Go build cache by running `go clean -modcache`.

6. Finally, make sure your IDE (Goland) is configured to use Go Modules. You can do this by going to `File > Settings > Go > Go Modules (vgo)` and ensure that the `Enable Go Modules (vgo) integration` checkbox is checked.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------
