
# Post \#67733156 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67733156/)

## convert int to ascii - more than one character in rune literal

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 5318 (513/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-468

Created at 2021-05-28 05:02:45

Tags: `go`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How do I convert into to its ASCII?
In java it's `System.out.println((char)(49)); //gives 1`
I tried
```
a := '42'
fmt.Println(rune(a))
```

I get `more than one character in rune literal`


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In Go, you can convert an integer to its ASCII equivalent by using the `fmt.Sprintf` function. Here's an example:

```
a := 49
ascii := fmt.Sprintf("%c", a)
fmt.Println(ascii) // Output: 1
```

In your example, you're trying to assign a string to a rune variable, which is causing the error. To fix it, you can convert the string to an integer first using the `strconv.Atoi` function:

```
a := "42"
num, _ := strconv.Atoi(a)
ascii := fmt.Sprintf("%c", num)
fmt.Println(ascii) // Output: *
```

This will convert the string "42" to the integer 42, which corresponds to the ASCII code for the asterisk character.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In Go, you can convert an integer to its ASCII equivalent by using the `fmt.Sprintf` function. Here's an example:

```
a := 49
ascii := fmt.Sprintf("%c", a)
fmt.Println(ascii) // Output: 1
```

In your code, you are assigning a string to the variable `a`. To convert a string to its ASCII equivalent, you need to convert each character in the string to its ASCII value. Here's an example:

```
a := "42"
for _, c := range a {
    ascii := fmt.Sprintf("%c", c)
    fmt.Println(ascii)
}
```

This will output:

```
4
2
``` 

Note that the `range` function is used to iterate over each character in the string.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In Go, you can convert an integer to its ASCII equivalent using the `fmt.Sprintf` function. Here's an example:

```
a := 49
ascii := fmt.Sprintf("%c", a)
fmt.Println(ascii) // Output: 1
```

In this example, we first assign the integer value `49` to the variable `a`. Then, we use the `fmt.Sprintf` function to convert `a` to its ASCII equivalent. The `%c` format specifier is used to indicate that we want to format the integer as a character. Finally, we print the resulting ASCII character to the console using `fmt.Println`.

Note that in your example, you're trying to assign a string (`'42'`) to a variable of type `rune`. To fix the error, you can change the type of `a` to `int` and assign the integer value `42` instead of the string value `'42'`.

--------
