
# Post \#63852397 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63852397/)

## Arrays without fixed length in golang

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 8487 (448/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-452

Created at 2020-09-11 18:24:11

Tags: `go`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have recently started with `golang` and was working with `arrays` and came across a situation where I did not have the number of elements. Is there a way to initialize a array without a size and then append elements in the end? Something like there in other programming languages like `c++`, `javascript` where there are `vectors` and `arrays` that can be used and we can add elements by functions like `push_back` or `push`. Is there a way that we can do this or is there a library in which we can do this? Thank you!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Go, you can use a data structure called a "slice" which is similar to an array but it can grow and shrink in size. Slices are more common in Go than traditional arrays.

Here's how you can declare a slice and append elements to it:

```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    // Declare a slice of integers
    var s []int

    // Append elements to the slice
    s = append(s, 1)
    s = append(s, 2, 3, 4)

    fmt.Println(s) // Output: [1 2 3 4]
}
```

In the above example, we first declare a slice `s` of integers. We then append elements to the slice using the `append` function. The `append` function takes a slice and one or more elements to be added to the slice, and returns a new slice which includes the original elements plus the new ones.

Note that slices in Go are dynamic, meaning they can grow and shrink in size as needed. This is different from arrays, which have a fixed size.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Go, the dynamic version of an array is called a slice. Slices are more common in Go code than arrays because they are more flexible.

You can create a slice with no elements like this:

```go
var s []int
```

You can append elements to the slice using the `append` function:

```go
s = append(s, 1) // s now has one element
s = append(s, 2, 3, 4) // s now has four elements
```

The `append` function creates a new slice and returns it. The original slice is not modified. This is why you need to assign the result of `append` back to `s`.

If you know the capacity that your slice will need, you can make your code more efficient by creating the slice with that capacity from the start:

```go
s := make([]int, 0, 10) // create a slice with capacity 10
```

This creates a slice with length 0 and capacity 10. As you append elements to the slice, it will not need to allocate new memory until you append more than 10 elements.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Go, you can use a dynamic data structure called a "slice" which is similar to an array but it can grow and shrink in size. 

Here is how you can declare a slice:

```go
var mySlice []int
```

You can add elements to a slice using the `append` function:

```go
mySlice = append(mySlice, 1) // mySlice is now: [1]
mySlice = append(mySlice, 2) // mySlice is now: [1, 2]
mySlice = append(mySlice, 3) // mySlice is now: [1, 2, 3]
```

You can also append multiple items at once:

```go
mySlice = append(mySlice, 4, 5, 6) // mySlice is now: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
```

And you can even append another slice to a slice:

```go
anotherSlice := []int{7, 8, 9}
mySlice = append(mySlice, anotherSlice...) // mySlice is now: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
```

Note the `...` after `anotherSlice` in the `append` function. This is called the ellipsis operator and it is used to pass the elements of a slice to a variadic function.

Remember that slices in Go are reference types. This means that when you pass a slice to a function, the function can modify the elements of the slice. If you come from a programming language where arrays are value types (like C++), this can be a source of confusion.

--------
