
# Post \#55041915 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55041915/)

## Multiple modules within the same project

**Vote**: 29 (199/702) **Views**: 37671 (198/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-454

Created at 2019-03-07 10:46:05

Tags: `go` `module`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've been playing with Go modules and I was wondering what the best practice is in terms of the following directory structure:

```
project
├── go.mod
├── main.go
└── players
    ├── go.mod
    ├── players.go
    └── players_test.go
```


I was having problems importing the `players` package into my root project at first, but I noticed I could do this in the root `go.mod` file

```
module github.com/<name>/<project>

require (
    github.com/<name>/players v0.0.0
)

replace github.com/<name>/players => ./players
```


This then allows me to do `import "github.com/<name>/players"` in my `main.go` file.

Now this approach works and was taken from [here](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules#can-i-work-entirely-outside-of-vcs-on-my-local-filesystem) but I'm not sure if that's the correct approach for this or whether this approach is just meant for updating a local package temporarily while it's outside version control.

Another option, that seems a little overkill, is to make every module its own repository?

TL;DR; - What's the best practice approach to having multiple modules within the same repository and importing them in in other modules / a root `main.go` file?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The approach you have taken is a valid one and is commonly used when working with Go modules. It allows you to work on multiple modules within the same repository and import them into other modules or a root `main.go` file.

The `replace` directive in the root `go.mod` file is used to replace the remote import path with a local one. This is useful when you are working on a local package that is not yet published to a remote repository. It is also useful when you want to make changes to a package that is published to a remote repository, but you want to test those changes locally before pushing them to the remote repository.

Regarding the option of making every module its own repository, this is also a valid approach. It allows you to version each module independently and makes it easier to manage dependencies between modules. However, it can also add complexity to your project and may not be necessary if your modules are tightly coupled and need to be developed together.

In summary, the approach you have taken is a good one for managing multiple modules within the same repository. However, if your modules are more complex and need to be versioned independently, then creating separate repositories for each module may be a better approach.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The approach you have taken is a valid one and is recommended by the official Go documentation. It is called a "local replace directive" and is used to replace a module with a local directory during development.

This approach is useful when you are working on multiple modules within the same repository and want to test them together. It is also useful when you are working on a module that is not yet ready for release and want to test it with other modules.

However, when you are ready to release your modules, it is recommended to create separate repositories for each module. This makes it easier to manage the modules and their dependencies, and allows other developers to easily use your modules in their projects.

In summary, the best practice approach for having multiple modules within the same repository is to use local replace directives during development, and to create separate repositories for each module when you are ready to release them.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The approach you have taken is a valid one and is commonly used in Go projects. It is called a "local replace" directive and is used to replace a remote module with a local one during development. This approach is useful when you are working on multiple modules within the same repository and want to test them together.

Another approach is to use sub-packages within the same module. In your case, you could have a `players` package and a `main` package within the same module. This approach is useful when you have a small project with a few packages.

Making each module its own repository is not necessary unless you plan to use them in other projects or want to version them separately.

In summary, the best practice approach to having multiple modules within the same repository is to use local replace directives or sub-packages within the same module, depending on the size and complexity of your project.

--------
