
# Post \#67125307 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67125307/)

## Using multiple interfaces in Golang

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 3058 (566/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-456

Created at 2021-04-16 12:33:11

Tags: `go` `design-patterns` `interface`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm learning Golang and as an exercise in using interfaces I'm building a toy program. I'm having some problem trying to use a type that "should implement" two interfaces - one way to solve that in C++ and Java would be to use inheritance(there are other techniques, but I think that is the most common). As I lack that mechanism in Golang, I'm not sure how to proceed about it. Below is the code:
```
var (
    faces = []string{"Ace", "Two", "Three", "Four", "Five", "Six", "Seven", "Eight", "Nine", "Ten", "Jack", "Queen", "King"}

    suits = []string{"Hearts", "Diamonds", "Spades", "Clubs"}
)

type Card interface {
    GetFace() string
    GetSuit() string
}

type card struct {
    cardNum int
    face    string
    suit    string
}

func NewCard(num int) Card {
    newCard := card{
        cardNum: num,
        face:    faces[num%len(faces)],
        suit:    suits[num/len(faces)],
    }

    return &newCard
}

func (c *card) GetFace() string {
    return c.face
}

func (c *card) GetSuit() string {
    return c.suit
}

func (c *card) String() string {
    return fmt.Sprintf("%s%s ", c.GetFace(), c.GetSuit())
}
```

What I'm trying to achieve:
- - 
The problem comes when I'm trying to use a new card though the "Card" interface and also trying to get the string representation. I cannot pass the interface as the parameter of the implementation of the  method as there is a compiler error which is related to the addressability of an interface at the core language level(still digging through that documentation). The very simple example of testing exposes the issue:
```
func TestString(t *testing.T) {
    card := NewCard(0)
    assert.EqualValues(t, "AceHearts ", card.String(), " newly created card's string repr should be 'AceHearts '")
}
```

The compiler tells me, for good reason, that . I could just add the  method to my  interface, but I do not find that to be clean: I have other entities implemented with the same model and I would have to add that redundancy everywhere; there is already an interface with that method.
What would be a good solution for the above issue that I'm having?
(to address some of the very good comments)
- - - - - 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Go, you can define multiple methods in an interface. If a type provides implementations for all the methods in an interface, then it is said to implement that interface. 

In your case, you can create another interface that embeds the `Card` interface and also includes the `String()` method. This way, you can use the `Stringer` interface wherever you need to call both `Card` methods and `String()`. Here's how you can do it:

```go
type Stringer interface {
    Card
    String() string
}
```

Now, you can use the `Stringer` interface in your test function:

```go
func TestString(t *testing.T) {
    card := NewCard(0)
    stringerCard, ok := card.(Stringer)
    if !ok {
        t.Fatal("Card does not implement Stringer interface")
    }
    assert.EqualValues(t, "AceHearts ", stringerCard.String(), " newly created card's string repr should be 'AceHearts '")
}
```

In this way, you can use the `Stringer` interface wherever you need to call both `Card` methods and `String()`. This is a common pattern in Go and is used in the standard library as well. For example, the `io.ReadWriter` interface embeds both `io.Reader` and `io.Writer`.

Also, you should modify your `NewCard` function to return `Stringer` instead of `Card`:

```go
func NewCard(num int) Stringer {
    newCard := card{
        cardNum: num,
        face:    faces[num%len(faces)],
        suit:    suits[num/len(faces)],
    }

    return &newCard
}
```

This way, you ensure that the returned value implements both `Card` and `Stringer` interfaces.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Go, you can achieve this by using interface composition. This is similar to inheritance in other languages, but it's more flexible because it allows you to mix and match different interfaces to get exactly the behavior you want.

In your case, you can define a new interface that includes both the `Card` interface and the `fmt.Stringer` interface. Here's how you can do it:

```go
type CardStringer interface {
    Card
    fmt.Stringer
}
```

Then, you can change your `NewCard` function to return a `CardStringer` instead of a `Card`:

```go
func NewCard(num int) CardStringer {
    newCard := card{
        cardNum: num,
        face:    faces[num%len(faces)],
        suit:    suits[num/len(faces)],
    }

    return &newCard
}
```

Now, you can use the `String` method on any value that is a `CardStringer`:

```go
func TestString(t *testing.T) {
    card := NewCard(0)
    assert.EqualValues(t, "AceHearts ", card.String(), " newly created card's string repr should be 'AceHearts '")
}
```

This way, you don't have to add the `String` method to your `Card` interface, and you can still use it where you need it. This is one of the strengths of Go's interface system: it allows you to define exactly the behavior you need, without forcing you to add unnecessary methods to your types.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Go, you can achieve the same functionality as inheritance in other languages by using interfaces. In your case, you want a type to implement two interfaces. You can do this by defining a new interface that embeds the two interfaces you want your type to implement.

For example, you can define a new interface `CardStringer` that embeds the `Card` and `fmt.Stringer` interfaces:

```go
type CardStringer interface {
    Card
    fmt.Stringer
}
```

Then, you can change your `NewCard` function to return a `CardStringer` instead of a `Card`:

```go
func NewCard(num int) CardStringer {
    newCard := card{
        cardNum: num,
        face:    faces[num%len(faces)],
        suit:    suits[num/len(faces)],
    }

    return &newCard
}
```

Now, your `card` type implements the `CardStringer` interface, and you can use it as such:

```go
func TestString(t *testing.T) {
    card := NewCard(0)
    assert.EqualValues(t, "AceHearts ", card.String(), " newly created card's string repr should be 'AceHearts '")
}
```

This way, you don't have to add the `String` method to your `Card` interface, and you can still use the `String` method from the `fmt.Stringer` interface. You can use this pattern to make a type implement any number of interfaces.

--------
