
# Post \#71376627 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71376627/)

## In Go generics, how to use a common method for types in a union constraint?

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 6741 (488/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-463

Created at 2022-03-07 05:05:35

Tags: `go` `generics`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to understand the usage of the type union constraint in Go generics (v1.18). Here is the code I tried:
```
type A struct {
}

type B struct {
}

type AB interface {
    *A | *B
}

func (a *A) some() bool {
    return true
}

func (b *B) some() bool {
    return false
}

func some[T AB](x T) bool {
    return x.some()   // <- error
}
```

The compiler complains:
> `x.some` undefined (type `T` has no field or method some)
Why is that? If I cannot use a shared method of type `*A` and `*B`, what's the point of defining types union `*A | *B` at all?
(Apparently I can define an interface with the shared method and directly use that. But in my particular use case I want to restrict to the certain types explicitly.)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The type union constraint in Go generics is used to specify that a type parameter can be one of several types. However, it does not mean that the type parameter will have access to the methods of all the types in the union.

In your example, the `AB` interface is defined as a type union of `*A` and `*B`. This means that any type that implements the `AB` interface must be either a pointer to `A` or a pointer to `B`. However, this does not mean that a value of type `T` (which is constrained to be `AB`) will have access to the methods of both `*A` and `*B`.

When you call the `some` method on a value of type `T`, the compiler does not know whether the value is a pointer to `A` or a pointer to `B`, so it cannot determine which implementation of the `some` method to call. To fix this, you can define a separate interface that includes the `some` method and have both `*A` and `*B` implement that interface. Then, you can use that interface as the constraint for the type parameter `T`.

Here's an example of how you can modify your code to use a separate interface:

```
type A struct {
}

type B struct {
}

type Someable interface {
    some() bool
}

func (a *A) some() bool {
    return true
}

func (b *B) some() bool {
    return false
}

func some[T Someable](x T) bool {
    return x.some()
}
```

In this example, the `Someable` interface includes the `some` method, and both `*A` and `*B` implement that interface. The `some` function is now constrained to types that implement the `Someable` interface, which includes both `*A` and `*B`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The type union constraint in Go generics is used to specify that a type parameter can be any one of a set of types. However, it does not mean that the type parameter will have all the methods of all the types in the union.

In your example, the `AB` interface specifies that a type can be either `*A` or `*B`. However, it does not specify that the type will have the `some()` method. Therefore, when you try to call `x.some()` in the `some` function, the compiler complains that `T` has no field or method `some`.

If you want to restrict the type parameter to types that have the `some()` method, you can define a separate interface that specifies this method and use it as a constraint on the type parameter:

```
type A struct {
}

type B struct {
}

type Someable interface {
    some() bool
}

func (a *A) some() bool {
    return true
}

func (b *B) some() bool {
    return false
}

func some[T Someable](x T) bool {
    return x.some()
}
```

In this version of the code, the `Someable` interface specifies that a type must have the `some()` method. Therefore, when you use `Someable` as a constraint on the `T` type parameter in the `some` function, you can be sure that `x` will have the `some()` method and the compiler will not complain.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The issue with your code is that the type union constraint `*A | *B` does not define a new type, but rather a set of types that are allowed to be used as a type argument for the generic function `some[T AB](x T) bool`. 

When you call `x.some()` inside the `some` function, the compiler does not know whether `x` is of type `*A` or `*B`, because `T` can be either of those types. Therefore, it cannot resolve the method call and gives you the error you see.

If you want to restrict the types that can be used as a type argument for `some` to only `*A` and `*B`, you can define a separate interface that both `*A` and `*B` implement, and use that as the type constraint for `T`. For example:

```
type A struct {
}

type B struct {
}

type Someable interface {
    some() bool
}

func (a *A) some() bool {
    return true
}

func (b *B) some() bool {
    return false
}

func some[T Someable](x T) bool {
    return x.some()
}
```

Now, `T` can only be a type that implements the `Someable` interface, which includes both `*A` and `*B`.

--------
