
# Post \#48882691 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48882691/)

## Force retesting or disable test caching

**Vote**: 217 (18/702) **Views**: 144910 (55/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-465

Created at 2018-02-20 10:10:53

Tags: `testing` `go`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------



When I run the same go test twice the second run is not done at all. The results are the cached ones from the first run.

```
PASS    
ok      tester/apitests    (cached)
```




I already checked [https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Testing_flags](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-Testing_flags) but there is no cli flag for that purpose.






----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This behavior is expected in Go's testing framework. By default, Go caches the results of successful tests to speed up subsequent test runs. If you want to force Go to re-run all tests, including those that passed in the previous run, you can use the `-count` flag with a value of 1 or higher.

For example, to run all tests once without using the cache, you can run:

```
go test -count=1 ./...
```

This will force Go to re-run all tests, even if they passed in a previous run. Note that this may increase the time it takes to run your tests, especially if you have a large test suite.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This behavior is expected in Go's testing framework. By default, Go caches the results of successful tests to speed up subsequent test runs. If you want to force Go to re-run the tests, you can use the `-count` flag with a value of 1. 

For example, to run the tests once without using the cache, you can use the following command:

```
go test -count=1 ./tester/apitests
```

This will force Go to run the tests again and not use the cached results.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This behavior is expected in Go's testing framework. By default, Go caches the results of successful tests to speed up subsequent test runs. If you want to force Go to re-run all tests, including successful ones, you can use the `-count` flag with a value of 1 or higher. For example:

```
go test -count=1
```

This will run all tests once, regardless of whether they passed or failed in previous runs.

--------
