
# Post \#70586511 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70586511/)

## protoc-gen-go: unable to determine Go import path for "simple.proto"

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 18045 (319/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-8-469

Created at 2022-01-05 00:22:54

Tags: `go` `protocol-buffers` `protoc`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `go` (full parsed tag list: `go`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have simple proto file with following content.
```
syntax="proto3";

package main;

message Person {
      string name = 1;
      int32 age = 2; 
}
```

I am trying to generate go code for it using protoc. I run:
```
protoc --go_out=. simple.proto
```

I receive following error:
```
protoc-gen-go: unable to determine Go import path for "simple.proto"

Please specify either:
        • a "go_package" option in the .proto source file, or
        • a "M" argument on the command line.
```

`main.go`, `go.mod` and `simple.proto` is in the same folder. Both `protoc` and `protoc-gen-go` are defined in PATH enviroement.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message is indicating that the `protoc-gen-go` tool is unable to determine the Go import path for your `simple.proto` file. This is because the `go_package` option is not specified in your .proto source file.

The `go_package` option is a way to specify the full Go import path of the package. It is used as the package clause in the generated Go file.

You can fix this issue by adding a `go_package` option to your `proto` file. Here's how you can do it:

```protobuf
syntax="proto3";

package main;

option go_package = "main";

message Person {
      string name = 1;
      int32 age = 2; 
}
```

In this case, `main` is the name of the Go package where the generated Go file will be placed. 

After making this change, you should be able to generate the Go code without any issues.

If you want to specify a full path, you can do so like this:

```protobuf
option go_package = "github.com/yourusername/yourrepository/yourpackage";
```

This would be useful if you're working in a larger project where the Go code might be imported from different places.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message is indicating that `protoc-gen-go` is unable to determine the Go import path for your `simple.proto` file. This is because the `go_package` option is not specified in your `.proto` file and you didn't provide a "M" argument on the command line.

You can resolve this issue by adding a `go_package` option to your `simple.proto` file. The `go_package` option should be a full import path, which includes the full path of the package where the generated Go code will be placed.

Here's how you can modify your `simple.proto` file:

```protobuf
syntax="proto3";

package main;

option go_package = "github.com/yourusername/yourrepository/yourpackage";

message Person {
      string name = 1;
      int32 age = 2; 
}
```

Replace `"github.com/yourusername/yourrepository/yourpackage"` with the actual path to your Go package.

After adding the `go_package` option, you can generate the Go code with the same `protoc` command:

```bash
protoc --go_out=. simple.proto
```

This should generate the Go code without any errors.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is because the protoc-gen-go plugin requires the go_package option to be specified in your .proto file. This option specifies the package name for the generated Go code. 

You can fix this by adding a go_package option to your .proto file. Here's how your updated .proto file should look:

```protobuf
syntax="proto3";

package main;

option go_package = "main"; // add this line

message Person {
      string name = 1;
      int32 age = 2; 
}
```

After you've made this change, you should be able to generate the Go code with the same command:

```bash
protoc --go_out=. simple.proto
```

This should generate a Go file in the current directory with the Go code for your protobuf message.

If you want the generated Go code to be in a different package, you can specify that package name in the go_package option. For example, if you want the generated code to be in a package named "person", you would use `option go_package = "person";` instead.

--------
