
# Post \#51208703 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51208703/)

## How to raise a number to a power?

**Vote**: 112 (51/702) **Views**: 84248 (100/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-498

Created at 2018-07-06 10:46:41

Tags: `rust` `operators` `exponentiation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was trying to raise an integer to a power using the caret operator (`^`), but I am getting surprising results, e.g.:
```
assert_eq!(2^10, 8);
```

How can I perform exponentiation in Rust?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In Rust, the caret operator (`^`) is not used for exponentiation, but for bitwise XOR. To perform exponentiation, you can use the `pow` method provided by the `num_traits` crate.

First, add the `num_traits` crate to your `Cargo.toml` file:
```toml
[dependencies]
num-traits = "0.2"
```

Then, you can use the `pow` method like this:
```rust
use num_traits::pow;

assert_eq!(pow(2, 10), 1024);
```

Alternatively, you can use the `powi` method if you want to raise an integer to a non-negative integer power:
```rust
assert_eq!(2.powi(10), 1024);
```

Note that the `pow` method returns a `Num` trait object, which may not be what you want if you need to perform further calculations with the result. In that case, you can convert the result to the desired type using the `as` keyword, like this:
```rust
let result: i32 = pow(2, 10).as_();
assert_eq!(result, 1024);
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In Rust, the caret operator (`^`) is not used for exponentiation, but for bitwise XOR. To perform exponentiation, you can use the `pow` method from the `std::ops::Pow` trait. Here's an example:

```rust
let base = 2;
let exponent = 10;
let result = base.pow(exponent);
assert_eq!(result, 1024);
```

In this example, we use the `pow` method to raise the integer `base` to the power of `exponent`. The result is stored in the `result` variable, which is then checked against the expected value using the `assert_eq` macro.

Note that the `pow` method returns a `u32` or `u64` depending on the size of the integer type used for the base. If you need to perform exponentiation with floating-point numbers, you can use the `powf` method from the `std::f64` module.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In Rust, the caret operator (`^`) is not used for exponentiation, but for bitwise XOR. To perform exponentiation, you can use the `pow` method from the `num_traits` crate. Here's an example:

```rust
use num_traits::pow;

assert_eq!(pow(2, 10), 1024);
```

Alternatively, you can use the `pow` method from the standard library's `std::ops::Mul` trait, which is implemented for many numeric types:

```rust
assert_eq!(2i32.pow(10), 1024);
```

Note that the `pow` method takes the base as the first argument and the exponent as the second argument.

--------
