
# Post \#70193935 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70193935/)

## How to sort a Vec of structs by 2 or multiple fields?

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 2894 (573/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-496

Created at 2021-12-02 03:41:34

Tags: `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

`example`
```
struct MyStruct{
    row: u8,
    column: u8
}

let my_vector = a Vec<MyStruct> with like 100 items in it
```

Lets say I have a simple setup like this ^. I want to sort `my_vector` list of say 100 items by row AND THEN by column so I get my vector looking like `sample 1` instead of `sample 2`.
`sample 1`
```
my_vector = vec![
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 1 },
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 2 },
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 3 }, ]
```

`sample 2`
```
my_vector = vec![
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 3 },
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 1 },
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 2 }, ]
```

Currently I've been working off [this post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56105305/how-to-sort-a-vec-of-structs-by-a-string-field) which describes how to sort by a single key with the `sort_by_key()` function, but the issue i'm having with that is that I can only sort by a single key, and not by two or multiple keys. This results in problems like `sample 2`, where I get my rows sorted but then my columns in a random order.
,  Thanks


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To sort a vector of structs by multiple keys, you can use the `sort_by()` function and provide a closure that compares the two items based on their row and column values. Here's an example implementation:

```
my_vector.sort_by(|a, b| {
    if a.row == b.row {
        a.column.cmp(&b.column)
    } else {
        a.row.cmp(&b.row)
    }
});
```

This closure first compares the row values of the two items. If they are equal, it then compares their column values. This will result in the vector being sorted by row first, and then by column within each row.

You can also use the `then()` method to chain multiple comparisons together, like this:

```
my_vector.sort_by(|a, b| {
    a.row.cmp(&b.row)
        .then_with(|| a.column.cmp(&b.column))
});
```

This has the same effect as the previous implementation, but uses the `then()` method to chain the column comparison onto the end of the row comparison.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To sort a vector of structs by multiple keys, you can use the `sort_by()` function and define a custom comparison function that compares the rows first and then the columns. Here's an example implementation:

```
my_vector.sort_by(|a, b| {
    if a.row == b.row {
        a.column.cmp(&b.column)
    } else {
        a.row.cmp(&b.row)
    }
});
```

This code sorts the vector by comparing the rows of each struct first. If the rows are equal, it compares the columns. This will give you the desired output where the vector is sorted by row and then by column.

Note that `sort_by()` sorts the vector in place, so you don't need to assign the result to a new variable.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To sort a vector of structs by multiple keys, you can use the `sort_by()` method and provide a closure that compares the two items based on the keys you want to sort by.

Here's an example implementation for your `MyStruct` struct:

```
my_vector.sort_by(|a, b| {
    if a.row == b.row {
        a.column.cmp(&b.column)
    } else {
        a.row.cmp(&b.row)
    }
});
```

This closure first compares the `row` field of the two items. If they are equal, it compares the `column` field. This will result in a vector sorted by `row` first, and then by `column`.

You can modify this closure to sort by more fields if needed. Just add more `if` statements to compare additional fields.

--------
