
# Post \#63326882 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63326882/)

## How to wait for a list of async function calls in Rust?

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 8939 (431/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-507

Created at 2020-08-09 13:23:27

Tags: `rust` `async-await` `concurrency`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a list of `async` functions that I want to execute concurrently and then wait for all them to finish. The working code I have right now is:
```
async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        consumer.consume().await;
    }
}
```

This is not quite accurate as the functions are executed serially. I am looking for something like [join!](https://docs.rs/async-std/0.99.12/async_std/future/macro.join.html), but which works on a dynamic vector. With that I should be able to write something like:
```
async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    let mut v = Vec::new();
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        consumer.consume();
    }
    join!(v);
}
```

Right now `join!` supports only tuples. I am looking for an alternative for that. Something similar to [Promise.all()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/all) in JavaScript.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `futures::future::join_all` function to achieve this. It takes a vector of futures and returns a future that resolves to a vector of their results. Here's how you can modify your code to use `join_all`:

```
use futures::future::join_all;

async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    let mut futures = Vec::new();
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        futures.push(consumer.consume());
    }
    join_all(futures).await;
}
```

This will execute all the `consume` functions concurrently and wait for all of them to finish before returning. The `join_all` function returns a future that resolves to a vector of the results of each future in the same order as the input vector. If you don't need the results, you can simply discard the return value of `join_all`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `futures::future::join_all` function to achieve this. It takes a vector of futures and returns a future that completes when all the input futures have completed. Here's how you can modify your code to use `join_all`:

```
use futures::future::join_all;

async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    let mut futures = Vec::new();
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        futures.push(consumer.consume());
    }
    join_all(futures).await;
}
```

This will execute all the `consume` functions concurrently and wait for all of them to complete before returning.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `futures::future::join_all` function to achieve this. It takes a vector of futures and returns a future that completes when all the input futures complete. Here's how you can modify your code to use `join_all`:

```
use futures::future::join_all;

async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    let mut futures = Vec::new();
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        futures.push(consumer.consume());
    }
    join_all(futures).await;
}
```

This will execute all the `consume` functions concurrently and wait for all of them to complete before returning.

--------
