
# Post \#70193935 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70193935/)

## How to sort a Vec of structs by 2 or multiple fields?

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 2894 (573/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-496

Created at 2021-12-02 03:41:34

Tags: `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

`example`
```
struct MyStruct{
    row: u8,
    column: u8
}

let my_vector = a Vec<MyStruct> with like 100 items in it
```

Lets say I have a simple setup like this ^. I want to sort `my_vector` list of say 100 items by row AND THEN by column so I get my vector looking like `sample 1` instead of `sample 2`.
`sample 1`
```
my_vector = vec![
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 1 },
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 2 },
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 3 }, ]
```

`sample 2`
```
my_vector = vec![
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 3 },
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 1 },
MyStruct { row: 10, column: 2 }, ]
```

Currently I've been working off [this post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56105305/how-to-sort-a-vec-of-structs-by-a-string-field) which describes how to sort by a single key with the `sort_by_key()` function, but the issue i'm having with that is that I can only sort by a single key, and not by two or multiple keys. This results in problems like `sample 2`, where I get my rows sorted but then my columns in a random order.
,  Thanks


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `sort_by` method to sort by multiple keys. This method takes a closure that returns an `Ordering` for two elements. You can use the `cmp` method on tuples to compare both the `row` and `column` fields.

Here is an example:

```rust
my_vector.sort_by(|a, b| (a.row, a.column).cmp(&(b.row, b.column)));
```

This will sort your vector first by `row` and then by `column`. If two elements have the same `row`, they will be sorted by `column`. If they also have the same `column`, they will be considered equal for the purposes of sorting.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `sort_by` function in Rust, which allows you to provide a custom comparator. This comparator can take into account multiple fields of your struct. Here is how you can do it:

```rust
my_vector.sort_by(|a, b| {
    let row_cmp = a.row.cmp(&b.row);
    if row_cmp == std::cmp::Ordering::Equal {
        a.column.cmp(&b.column)
    } else {
        row_cmp
    }
});
```

In this code, we first compare the `row` fields of two structs. If they are equal, we then compare the `column` fields. This way, the vector will be sorted first by `row`, and then by `column` within each group of equal `row` values.

This will sort your vector in ascending order. If you want to sort in descending order, you can simply swap `a` and `b` in the comparisons.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `sort_by` function to sort by multiple keys. This function allows you to provide a comparator function that can compare two elements of the vector. In your case, you can compare first by `row` and then by `column`. Here is how you can do it:

```rust
my_vector.sort_by(|a, b| {
    let row_cmp = a.row.cmp(&b.row);
    if row_cmp == std::cmp::Ordering::Equal {
        a.column.cmp(&b.column)
    } else {
        row_cmp
    }
});
```

In this code, we first compare the `row` of `a` and `b`. If they are equal, we then compare the `column`. This way, the vector is first sorted by `row` and then by `column` within each group of equal `row`.

--------
