
# Post \#63326882 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63326882/)

## How to wait for a list of async function calls in Rust?

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 8939 (431/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-507

Created at 2020-08-09 13:23:27

Tags: `rust` `async-await` `concurrency`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a list of `async` functions that I want to execute concurrently and then wait for all them to finish. The working code I have right now is:
```
async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        consumer.consume().await;
    }
}
```

This is not quite accurate as the functions are executed serially. I am looking for something like [join!](https://docs.rs/async-std/0.99.12/async_std/future/macro.join.html), but which works on a dynamic vector. With that I should be able to write something like:
```
async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    let mut v = Vec::new();
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        consumer.consume();
    }
    join!(v);
}
```

Right now `join!` supports only tuples. I am looking for an alternative for that. Something similar to [Promise.all()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/all) in JavaScript.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use `futures::future::join_all` function which is equivalent to `Promise.all()` in JavaScript. It takes an iterator over futures and returns a future that resolves to a vector of the results of those futures.

Here is how you can use it:

```rust
use futures::future::join_all;

async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    let futures: Vec<_> = self.consumers.iter().map(|consumer| consumer.consume()).collect();
    let results = join_all(futures).await;
}
```

In this code, we create a vector of futures by calling `consume` on each consumer and then we pass this vector to `join_all`. The `join_all` function returns a new future that we `await`. When this future resolves, it gives us a vector of the results of all the futures.

Please note that `join_all` does not guarantee the order of execution of the futures. They are executed concurrently, not in the order they are specified. The results vector, however, is in the same order as the input futures.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use `futures::future::join_all` function which is equivalent to `Promise.all()` in JavaScript. It takes an iterator over futures and returns a future that resolves to a vector of the results of those futures.

Here is how you can use it:

```rust
use futures::future::join_all;

async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    let mut v = Vec::new();
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        v.push(consumer.consume());
    }
    let results = join_all(v).await;
}
```

In this code, `join_all(v).await` will return a vector of results of all the futures. The futures are resolved concurrently, not serially.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Rust, you can use the `futures` crate to achieve this. The `futures::future::join_all` function is equivalent to `Promise.all()` in JavaScript. It takes an iterator of futures and returns a future that resolves to a vector of the results of the input futures.

Here's how you can use it:

```rust
use futures::future::join_all;

async fn start_consumers(&self) {
    let mut v = Vec::new();
    for consumer in &self.consumers {
        v.push(consumer.consume());
    }
    let results = join_all(v).await;
}
```

In this code, `join_all(v).await` will return a vector of the results of all the futures. The futures are run concurrently, and `join_all` waits for all of them to complete.

Please note that you need to add `futures` to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
futures = "0.3"
```

Also, make sure that your `consume` function returns a `Future`. If it doesn't, you'll need to wrap it in an `async` block or use `futures::future::ready` to turn the result into a `Future`.

--------
