
# Post \#72036456 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72036456/)

## How to convert Vec<T> to HashMap<T,T>?

**Vote**: -1 (699/702) **Views**: 1626 (619/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-509

Created at 2022-04-27 23:51:25

Tags: `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a vector of strings.I need to convert it to HashMap.
Vector's 0 elements should become a key and 1 element should become a value. The same for 2, 3, and so on.
The obvious solution, just to make a for loop and add them to HashMap one by one. However, it will end up several lines of code. I am curious whether there is a cleaner, one-liner.
I know you can do vec.to_iter().collect(). However, this requires a vector to have tuples (vs a flat vector).


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Rust, you can use the `chunks` method to split your vector into chunks of 2 elements and then use `map` and `collect` to create your `HashMap`. Here is a one-liner:

```rust
let map: HashMap<_, _> = vec.chunks(2).map(|chunk| (chunk[0].to_string(), chunk[1].to_string())).collect();
```

This will create a `HashMap` where the keys and values are the 0th and 1st elements of each chunk, respectively. 

Please note that this will panic if your vector doesn't have an even number of elements. You might want to add a check for that before running this code.

Also, this assumes that your vector contains strings. If it contains something else, you might need to adjust the `to_string` calls.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can convert a vector of strings to a HashMap in a one-liner using the `chunks` method and `map` method. Here is how you can do it:

```rust
use std::collections::HashMap;

let vec = vec!["key1", "value1", "key2", "value2"];
let map: HashMap<_, _> = vec.chunks(2).map(|chunk| (chunk[0], chunk[1])).collect();
```

In this code, `chunks(2)` splits the vector into slices of 2 elements each. Then `map` is used to convert each slice into a tuple, which is then collected into a HashMap.

Please note that this code assumes that the vector has an even number of elements. If the vector has an odd number of elements, the last element will be ignored.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `chunks` method to split your vector into chunks of 2 elements and then collect them into a HashMap. Here is a one-liner solution in Rust:

```rust
let map: HashMap<_, _> = vec.chunks(2).map(|chunk| (chunk[0].to_string(), chunk[1].to_string())).collect();
```

This will create a HashMap where the keys are the 0th, 2nd, 4th, etc. elements of your vector and the values are the 1st, 3rd, 5th, etc. elements.

Please note that this will panic if your vector has an odd length. If you want to handle this case, you can add a check before creating the HashMap.

--------
