
# Post \#70859478 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70859478/)

## What is the idiomatic way to do something when an Option is either None, or the inner value meets some condition?

**Vote**: 26 (219/702) **Views**: 7815 (469/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-491

Created at 2022-01-26 06:45:49

Tags: `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there a more idiomatic way to express something like the following?
```
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    match foo {
        Some(foo_val) if ! (foo_val < 5) /* i.e. the negation of my acceptance condition */ => {}
        _ => { foo.replace(5); }
    }
}
```

It seems like most of the time there's an alternative to having an arm that doesn't do anything, but I've been unable to find one for this particular case.
What I'd like to say is the more direct `if foo.is_none() || /* some way to extract and test the inner value */ { ... }`, or perhaps some chaining trick that's eluding me.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

One way to simplify the code is to use the `map_or_else` method on the `Option` type. This method takes two closures as arguments: the first one is called if the `Option` is `None`, and the second one is called with the inner value if the `Option` is `Some`. Here's an example:

```
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    foo = foo.map_or_else(|| Some(5), |val| if val < 5 { Some(5) } else { foo });
}
```

In this code, if `foo` is `None`, we replace it with `Some(5)`. If `foo` is `Some`, we check if the inner value is less than 5. If it is, we replace `foo` with `Some(5)`. If it's not, we leave `foo` unchanged.

This code is more concise than the original code and avoids the need for an arm that doesn't do anything.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

One way to simplify the code is to use the `map_or_else` method of `Option` to provide a default value and a closure to execute if the option is `None` or the value doesn't satisfy the acceptance condition. Here's an example:

```
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    foo = foo.map_or_else(|| Some(5), |val| if val < 5 { Some(5) } else { None });
}
```

In this code, the `map_or_else` method takes two arguments: a closure that returns a default value (`Some(5)` in this case) if the option is `None`, and a closure that takes the inner value and returns either `None` (if the value satisfies the acceptance condition) or `Some` with a new value (if the value doesn't satisfy the condition). The result of `map_or_else` is assigned back to `foo`, so it will contain either the original value (if it satisfies the condition) or the default value (if it doesn't or if it was `None`).

This code is more concise and expressive than the original `match` statement, and it avoids the need for an arm that doesn't do anything.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

One way to simplify the code is to use the `map_or_else` method of `Option`. This method takes two closures as arguments: one to execute if the `Option` is `None`, and one to execute if the `Option` is `Some`. Here's an example:

```
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    foo = foo.map_or_else(|| Some(5), |val| if val < 5 { Some(5) } else { foo });
}
```

In this code, the first closure (`|| Some(5)`) is executed if `foo` is `None`, and it simply returns a new `Some` value containing `5`. The second closure (`|val| if val < 5 { Some(5) } else { foo }`) is executed if `foo` is `Some`, and it checks if the value is less than `5`. If it is, it returns a new `Some` value containing `5`. If it isn't, it returns the original `foo` value.

This code has the advantage of not needing a separate `match` statement, and it's more concise than the original code.

--------
