
# Post \#73750587 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73750587/)

## Best way to populate a struct from a similar struct?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 426 (700/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-493

Created at 2022-09-16 21:48:41

Tags: `rust` `protocol-buffers` `prost`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am new to Rust, and am attempting to take a struct returned from a library (referred to as source struct) and convert it into protobuf message using `prost`. The goal is to take the source struct, map the source struct types to the protobuf message types (or rather, the appropriate types for prost-generated struct, referred to as message struct), and populate the message struct fields using fields from the source struct. The source struct fields are a subset of message struct fields. For example:
```
pub struct Message {
    pub id: i32,
    pub email: String,
    pub name: String,
}

pub struct Source {
    pub email: Email,
    pub name: Name,
}
```

So, I would like to take fields from from `Source`, map the types to corresponding types in `Message`, and populate the fields of `Message` using `Source` (fields have the same name). Currently, I am manually assigning the values by creating a `Message` struct and doing something like `message_struct.email = source_struct.email.to_string();`. Except I have multiple Message structs based on protobuf, some having 20+ fields, so I'm really hoping to find a more efficient way of doing this.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

One way to automate this process is to use a code generation tool like `prost-build`. `prost-build` generates Rust code for protobuf messages based on a `.proto` file. You can define your message struct in a `.proto` file, and then use `prost-build` to generate the corresponding Rust code.

Once you have the Rust code generated, you can use the `From` trait to convert your `Source` struct to the corresponding `Message` struct. Here's an example implementation:

```
use prost::Message;

impl From<Source> for Message {
    fn from(source: Source) -> Self {
        let mut message = Message::default();
        message.email = source.email.to_string();
        message.name = source.name.to_string();
        message
    }
}
```

This implementation assumes that the `email` and `name` fields in `Source` are convertible to strings. If they are not, you will need to provide additional conversion logic.

With this implementation, you can convert a `Source` struct to a `Message` struct like this:

```
let source = Source { email: Email::new("foo@example.com"), name: Name::new("Foo Bar") };
let message: Message = source.into();
```

This will create a new `Message` struct with the `email` and `name` fields populated from the corresponding fields in the `Source` struct.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

One way to achieve this is by implementing the `From` trait for your `Source` struct, which will allow you to convert it into a `Message` struct. Here's an example implementation:

```
impl From<Source> for Message {
    fn from(source: Source) -> Self {
        Message {
            id: 0, // set to default value
            email: source.email.to_string(),
            name: source.name.to_string(),
        }
    }
}
```

With this implementation, you can now convert a `Source` struct into a `Message` struct using the `into()` method:

```
let source = Source { email: "test@example.com".into(), name: "John Doe".into() };
let message: Message = source.into();
```

This will create a new `Message` struct with the `email` and `name` fields populated from the `Source` struct. You can also set the `id` field to a non-default value if needed.

Note that this implementation assumes that the `Email` and `Name` types have a `to_string()` method that returns a `String`. If they don't, you'll need to implement the `From` trait for those types as well.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

One way to automate this process is to use a library like `serde` to serialize the `Source` struct into a JSON or YAML string, and then deserialize it into the `Message` struct. Here's an example:

```rust
use serde::{Deserialize, Serialize};

#[derive(Debug, Serialize, Deserialize)]
pub struct Message {
    pub id: i32,
    pub email: String,
    pub name: String,
}

#[derive(Debug, Serialize, Deserialize)]
pub struct Source {
    pub email: String,
    pub name: String,
}

fn main() {
    let source = Source {
        email: "test@example.com".to_string(),
        name: "John Doe".to_string(),
    };

    let message: Message = serde_json::from_str(&serde_json::to_string(&source).unwrap()).unwrap();

    println!("{:?}", message);
}
```

In this example, we first define the `Message` and `Source` structs with their respective fields. We then use `serde` to derive the `Serialize` and `Deserialize` traits for both structs, which allows us to easily convert between them.

In the `main` function, we create a `Source` struct with some example data. We then use `serde_json` to serialize the `Source` struct into a JSON string, and immediately deserialize it into a `Message` struct. The `unwrap` calls are used to handle any errors that may occur during serialization or deserialization.

Finally, we print out the resulting `Message` struct to verify that the conversion was successful.

Note that this approach assumes that the field names and types in the `Source` struct match those in the `Message` struct. If there are any differences, you may need to manually map the fields using a custom function or macro.

--------
