
# Post \#66972195 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66972195/)

## How to check if a Box is a null pointer?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 4611 (532/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-497

Created at 2021-04-06 15:59:27

Tags: `pointers` `rust` `null` `box`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to implement a stack using pointers or something. How can I check if a `Box` is a null pointer? I seen some code with `Option<Box<T>>` and `Box<Option<T>>` but I don't understand this. This is as far as I went:
```
struct Node {
    value: i32,
    next: Box<Node>,
}

struct Stack {
    top: Box<Node>,
}
```



----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 9

Created at 2021-04-06 16:06:44

------------

`Box<T>` can never be NULL, therefore there is nothing to check.
> `Box<T>` values will always be fully aligned, non-null pointers— [std::box](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/boxed/index.html)
You most likely wish to use [Option](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html) to denote the absence / presence of a value:
```
struct Node {
    value: i32,
    next: Option<Box<Node>>,
}

struct Stack {
    top: Option<Box<Node>>,
}
```

See also:
- [Should we use Option or ptr::null to represent a null pointer in Rust?](https://stackoverflow.com/q/54195517/155423)- [How to set a field in a struct with an empty value?](https://stackoverflow.com/q/57962168/155423)- [What is the null pointer optimization in Rust?](https://stackoverflow.com/q/46557608/155423)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 5

Created at 2021-04-06 16:09:00

------------

You don't want `null`. `null` is an unsafe antipattern even in languages where you  to use it, and thankfully Rust rids us of the atrocity. `Box<T>`  contains a `T`,  `null`. Rust has no concept of `null`.
As you've correctly pointed out, if you want a value to be optional, you use `Option<T>`. Whether you do `Box<Option<T>>` or `Option<Box<T>>` really doesn't matter that much, and someone who knows a bit more about the lower-level side of things can chime in on which is more efficient.
```
struct Node {
    value: i32,
    next: Option<Box<Node>>,
}

struct Stack {
    top: Option<Box<Node>>,
}
```

The `Option` says "this may or may not exist" and the `Box` says "this value is on the heap. Now, the nice thing about `Option` that makes it infinitely better than `null` is that you  to check it. You  forget or the compiler will complain. The typical way to do so is with `match`
```
match my_stack.top {
    None => {
        // Top of stack is not present
    }
    Some(x) => {
        // Top of stack exists, and its value is x of type Box<T>
    }
}
```

There are [tons of helper methods](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html) on the `Option` type itself to deal with common patterns. Below are just a few of the most common ones I use. Note that  of these can be implemented in terms of `match` and are just convenience functions.
The equivalent of the following Java code
```
if (value == null) {
  result = null;
} else {
  result = ...;
}
```

is
```
let result = value.map(|v| ...)
```

Or, if the inner computation can feasibly produce `None` as well,
```
let result = value.and_then(|v| ...)
```

If you want to provide a default value, say zero, like
```
if (value == null) {
  result = 0;
} else {
  result = value;
}
```

Then you want
```
result = value.unwrap_or(0)
```

It's probably best to stop thinking in terms of how you would handle `null` and start learning `Option<T>` from scratch. Once you get the hang of it, it'll feel ten times safer and more ergonomic than `null` checks.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 2

Created at 2021-04-06 16:12:11

------------

A `Box<T>` is a pointer to some location on the heap that contains some data of type `T`. Rust guarantees that `Box<T>` will never be a null pointer, i.e the address should always be valid as long as you aren't doing anything weird and `unsafe`.
If you need to represent a value that might not be there (e.g this node is the last node, so there is no `next` node), you can use the `Option` type like so
```
struct Node {
    value: i32,
    next: Option<Box<Node>>,
}

struct Stack {
    top: Option<Box<Node>>,
}
```

Now, with `Option<Box<Node>>`, `Node` can either have a next `Node` or no next node. We can check if the `Option` is not `None` like so
```
fn print_next_node_value(node: &Node) {
    match &node.next {
        Some(next) => println!("the next value is {}", next.value),
        None => println!("there is no next node")
    }
}
```

Because a `Box` is just a pointer to some location on the heap, it can be better to use `Option<Box<T>>` instead of `Box<Option<T>>`. This is because the second one will allocate an `Option<T>` on the heap, while the first one will not. Additionally, `Option<Box<T>>` and `Box<T>` are equally big (both are 8 bytes). This is because Rust knows that `Box<T>` can never be all zeros (i.e can never be the null pointer), so it can use the all-0's state to represent the `None` case of `Option<Box<T>>`.


------------
    
    