
# Post \#51208703 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51208703/)

## How to raise a number to a power?

**Vote**: 112 (51/702) **Views**: 84248 (100/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-498

Created at 2018-07-06 10:46:41

Tags: `rust` `operators` `exponentiation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was trying to raise an integer to a power using the caret operator (`^`), but I am getting surprising results, e.g.:
```
assert_eq!(2^10, 8);
```

How can I perform exponentiation in Rust?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Rust, the caret (`^`) operator is not used for exponentiation. It is actually the bitwise XOR operator. 

To perform exponentiation in Rust, you can use the `pow` method from the standard library. Here is how you can raise an integer to a power:

```rust
assert_eq!(2u32.pow(10), 1024);
```

In this example, `2u32.pow(10)` raises 2 to the power of 10, which equals 1024.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Rust, the caret (`^`) operator is not used for exponentiation as it is in some other languages. Instead, it is used for bitwise XOR operation.

To perform exponentiation in Rust, you can use the `pow` method of the integer types. Here's how you can raise 2 to the power of 10:

```rust
assert_eq!(2u32.pow(10), 1024);
```

In this example, `2u32` is a 32-bit unsigned integer, and `pow` is a method that raises it to the power of the argument (10 in this case). The result is 1024, not 8.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The caret (`^`) operator in Rust is not used for exponentiation, it's used for bitwise XOR operation. That's why you're getting unexpected results.

To perform exponentiation in Rust, you can use the `pow` method from the standard library. Here's how you can do it:

```rust
assert_eq!(2u32.pow(10), 1024);
```

In this example, `2u32.pow(10)` raises `2` to the power of `10`, which equals `1024`.

--------
