
# Post \#62708607 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62708607/)

## How to fix diesel_cli link libpq.lib error with Postgres tools installed in Docker?

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 8269 (455/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-502

Created at 2020-07-03 04:38:51

Tags: `postgresql` `rust` `rust-cargo` `libpq` `rust-diesel`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust` `sql`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying (for hours now) to install the cargo crate `diesel_cli` for postgres. However, every time I run the [recommended](https://diesel.rs/guides/getting-started/) cargo command:
```
cargo install diesel_cli --no-default-features --features postgres
```

I wait a few minutes just to see the same build fail with this message:
```
note: LINK : fatal error LNK1181: cannot open input file 'libpq.lib'

error: aborting due to previous error
error: failed to compile `diesel_cli v1.4.1`, intermediate artifacts can be found at `C:\Users\<user name here>\AppData\Local\Temp\cargo-installUU2DtT`

Caused by:
  could not compile `diesel_cli`.
```

I'm running postgres in a docker container and have the binaries on my `C:\pgsql` with the `lib` and `bin` directories both on the `PATH` so I can't figure out why it's not linking. What else could be required they didn't mention in the docs?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It looks like the build is failing because it can't find the `libpq.lib` library file. This library is required for building the `diesel_cli` crate with PostgreSQL support.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure that you have installed the PostgreSQL development files on your system. On Windows, you can download the PostgreSQL installer from the official website and select the "Development files" option during installation.

2. Check that the `libpq.lib` file is present in the PostgreSQL installation directory. On Windows, this is typically located in `C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\<version>\lib`.

3. If the `libpq.lib` file is not present in the PostgreSQL installation directory, you can try downloading it from a third-party source. However, be careful when downloading files from unknown sources.

4. You can also try specifying the path to the `libpq.lib` file using the `LIB` environment variable. For example, you can run the following command before running the `cargo install` command:

   ```
   set LIB=C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\<version>\lib
   ```

   Replace `<version>` with the version of PostgreSQL you have installed.

Hopefully, one of these solutions will help you resolve the issue and successfully install the `diesel_cli` crate with PostgreSQL support.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the linker is unable to find the `libpq.lib` library file required for linking. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure that you have installed the PostgreSQL development libraries on your system. You can download them from the official PostgreSQL website.

2. Check if the `libpq.lib` file is present in the PostgreSQL installation directory. If it's not there, you may need to reinstall PostgreSQL and make sure to select the option to install the development libraries.

3. If the `libpq.lib` file is present, make sure that the directory containing it is included in the `LIB` environment variable. You can check this by running `echo %LIB%` in the command prompt.

4. If the `LIB` environment variable is not set correctly, you can set it manually by running the following command in the command prompt:
```
set LIB=C:\pgsql\lib;%LIB%
```
Replace `C:\pgsql\lib` with the path to the directory containing the `libpq.lib` file.

5. If none of the above steps work, you can try specifying the path to the `libpq.lib` file explicitly using the `LIB` linker flag. You can do this by running the following command:
```
cargo install diesel_cli --no-default-features --features postgres --target x86_64-pc-windows-msvc -L "C:\pgsql\lib"
```
Replace `C:\pgsql\lib` with the path to the directory containing the `libpq.lib` file.

I hope one of these solutions works for you. Let me know if you have any further questions or issues.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the linker is unable to find the `libpq.lib` library file. This library is required for the `diesel_cli` crate to work with PostgreSQL.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure that you have installed the PostgreSQL development files on your system. These files include the necessary libraries and header files required for building applications that use PostgreSQL. You can download the development files from the PostgreSQL website.

2. Check if the `libpq.lib` file is present in the `lib` directory of your PostgreSQL installation. If it is not present, you may need to reinstall PostgreSQL and make sure to select the option to install the development files.

3. Check if the `libpq.lib` file is present in any other directory on your system. If it is, you can add the directory to the `LIB` environment variable so that the linker can find it.

4. Try running the `cargo` command with the `--verbose` flag to get more information about the build process. This may help you identify any other issues that are causing the build to fail.

5. If none of the above solutions work, you can try building the `diesel_cli` crate from source. Clone the `diesel` repository from GitHub and run `cargo build --release --features postgres --bin diesel_cli`. This will build the `diesel_cli` binary with PostgreSQL support.

--------
