
# Post \#56724014 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56724014/)

## How do I collect the values of a HashMap into a vector?

**Vote**: 47 (131/702) **Views**: 29852 (233/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-503

Created at 2019-06-23 12:45:18

Tags: `rust` `hashmap`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I can not find a way to collect the values of a `HashMap` into a `Vec` in the documentation. I have `score_table: HashMap<Id, Score>` and I want to get all the `Score`s into `all_scores: Vec<Score>`.

I was tempted to use the `values` method (`all_scores = score_table.values()`), but it does not work since values is not a `Vec`.

I know that `Values` implements the `ExactSizeIterator` trait, but I do not know how to collect all values of an iterator into a vector without manually writing a for loop and pushing the values in the vector one after one.

I also tried to `use std::iter::FromIterator;` but ended with something like:

```
all_scores = Vec::from_iter(score_table.values());
```


```
expected type `std::vec::Vec<Score>`
   found type `std::vec::Vec<&Score>`
```


Thanks to [Hash map macro refuses to type-check, failing with a misleading (and seemingly buggy) error message?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52093493/hash-map-macro-refuses-to-type-check-failing-with-a-misleading-and-seemingly-b), I changed it to:

```
all_scores = Vec::from_iter(score_table.values().cloned());
```


and it does not produce errors to `cargo check`.

Is this a good way to do it? 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, your solution is correct. The `values()` method of a `HashMap` returns an iterator over the values of the map. Since these values are borrowed, you need to clone them to get owned values that you can store in a `Vec`. 

Here is the correct way to do it:

```rust
let all_scores: Vec<Score> = score_table.values().cloned().collect();
```

This will create a new `Vec` containing all the `Score` values in the `HashMap`. The `cloned()` method is used to create a copy of each value, and `collect()` is used to gather these cloned values into a `Vec`.

This is a good way to do it if the `Score` type implements the `Clone` trait and if it's okay to clone the scores. If the `Score` type is large or expensive to clone, you might want to consider using a `Vec<&Score>` to store references to the scores instead of cloning them. 

If you want to avoid cloning and it's okay to consume the `HashMap`, you can use `drain()` method:

```rust
let all_scores: Vec<Score> = score_table.drain().map(|(_, v)| v).collect();
```

This will empty the `HashMap` and move the values into a `Vec`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, your approach is correct. The `values()` method of a `HashMap` returns an iterator over the values of the map. Since these values are references, you need to clone them to get owned versions that can be collected into a `Vec`.

Here is the code you provided:

```rust
all_scores = Vec::from_iter(score_table.values().cloned());
```

This code is correct and idiomatic. It creates a new vector `all_scores` that contains all the values from `score_table`, each cloned.

However, you can simplify this code a bit by using the `collect()` method, which is a more idiomatic way to transform an iterator into a collection:

```rust
let all_scores: Vec<Score> = score_table.values().cloned().collect();
```

This code does exactly the same thing as your original code, but it's a bit shorter and more idiomatic. The `collect()` method is very flexible and can transform an iterator into a variety of different collections, not just `Vec`. The type of the collection is inferred from the context, or can be specified explicitly, as in this case.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, your approach is correct. The `values()` method returns an iterator over the values of the HashMap, and `cloned()` creates an iterator that clones the items from the original iterator. Then `Vec::from_iter()` collects these cloned items into a vector.

However, you can simplify your code by using the `collect()` method, which is a more idiomatic way to convert an iterator into a collection in Rust. Here's how you can do it:

```rust
let all_scores: Vec<Score> = score_table.values().cloned().collect();
```

This line does exactly the same thing as your code, but it's more concise and idiomatic. The type annotation (`Vec<Score>`) is necessary to tell the `collect()` method what type of collection you want to create.

--------
