
# Post \#70528742 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70528742/)

## How to transfer SOL in anchor smart contract instruction

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 4518 (534/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-492

Created at 2021-12-30 07:43:32

Tags: `rust` `solana` `anchor-solana`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am creating a dapp where multiple users can deposit SOL into an event account, and depending on whoever wins the event, they can redeem SOL back to their wallet.
How can I transfer native SOL (not any other spl-token) directly into the event account's vault address in an anchor smart contract instruction?
Would the following anchor instruction work?
If yes, what should be the `PROGRAM_ACCOUNT` in the following? Presumably, it should be the account that handles native SOL, but I couldn't find it in the documentation.
```
token::transfer(
    CpiContext::new(
        PROGRAM_ACCOUNT,
        anchor_spl::token::Transfer {
            from: source_user_info,
            to: destination_user_info,
            authority: source_user_info,
        },
    ),
    1,
)?;
```

Thanks in advance!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `anchor_spl::token::transfer` function is used to transfer SPL tokens, not native SOL. For transferring native SOL, you should use the `solana_program::system_instruction::transfer` function.

Here is an example of how you can use it:

```rust
let transfer_instruction = solana_program::system_instruction::transfer(
    &source_user_info.key, // sender's public key
    &destination_user_info.key, // receiver's public key
    lamports, // amount of SOL in lamports to transfer
);
```

In this instruction, `source_user_info.key` is the public key of the sender's account, `destination_user_info.key` is the public key of the receiver's account, and `lamports` is the amount of SOL to transfer, in lamports (1 SOL = 1_000_000_000 lamports).

After creating the instruction, you need to send it to the Solana network. You can do this using the `solana_program::program::invoke` function, or by adding the instruction to a transaction that you send to the network.

Please note that the sender's account must be signed, i.e., it must be included in the transaction's list of signers.

As for the `PROGRAM_ACCOUNT` in your code, it should be the program ID of the SPL Token program, which is used to handle SPL token transfers. But as I mentioned, you don't use this for transferring native SOL.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The Anchor framework currently does not support direct transfers of native SOL within a smart contract. The `anchor_spl::token::transfer` function you're referring to is used for transferring SPL tokens, not native SOL.

To handle native SOL, you would typically use the System Program's `transfer` instruction. However, this is not currently supported within Anchor smart contracts. 

A common workaround for this is to wrap SOL in an SPL token (like WSOL), which can then be transferred using the `anchor_spl::token::transfer` function. 

Here's a rough example of how you might do this:

```rust
let wsol_mint = anchor_spl::token::Mint::wsol();

let cpi_accounts = Transfer {
    from: source_user_info,
    to: destination_user_info,
    authority: source_user_info,
};

let cpi_program = wsol_mint;
let cpi_context = CpiContext::new(cpi_program, cpi_accounts);

token::transfer(cpi_context, amount)?;
```

In this example, `source_user_info` and `destination_user_info` would be the WSOL accounts of the source user and the destination user, respectively. The `authority` is the account that has the authority to transfer tokens from the source account.

Remember that the user will need to convert their SOL to WSOL before depositing it into the event account, and then convert it back to SOL when they want to withdraw it.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The code you've written is for transferring SPL tokens, not native SOL. Anchor currently does not have a built-in way to transfer native SOL in a similar way to how it handles SPL tokens.

To transfer native SOL, you would need to use the system program's `transfer` instruction. Here's an example of how you might do this:

```rust
solana_program::system_instruction::transfer(
    &source_user_info.key,
    &destination_user_info.key,
    amount,
)
```

In this case, `source_user_info.key` is the public key of the account sending the SOL, `destination_user_info.key` is the public key of the account receiving the SOL, and `amount` is the amount of SOL to be transferred (in lamports).

Remember that the source account must sign the transaction, so it needs to be provided as a signer when you call your instruction.

As for the `PROGRAM_ACCOUNT`, in the context of SPL tokens, it would be the Token program's address (`anchor_spl::token::TOKEN_PROGRAM_ID`). But again, this is not applicable when transferring native SOL.

--------
