
# Post \#70859478 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70859478/)

## What is the idiomatic way to do something when an Option is either None, or the inner value meets some condition?

**Vote**: 26 (219/702) **Views**: 7815 (469/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-491

Created at 2022-01-26 06:45:49

Tags: `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there a more idiomatic way to express something like the following?
```
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    match foo {
        Some(foo_val) if ! (foo_val < 5) /* i.e. the negation of my acceptance condition */ => {}
        _ => { foo.replace(5); }
    }
}
```

It seems like most of the time there's an alternative to having an arm that doesn't do anything, but I've been unable to find one for this particular case.
What I'd like to say is the more direct `if foo.is_none() || /* some way to extract and test the inner value */ { ... }`, or perhaps some chaining trick that's eluding me.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can use the `filter` method on `Option` to achieve this. Here's how you can rewrite your code in a more idiomatic way:

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    if foo.filter(|&foo_val| foo_val >= 5).is_none() {
        foo.replace(5);
    }
}
```

The `filter` method takes a predicate and transforms the `Option<T>` into an `Option<T>` where the `Some(T)` case is only retained if the predicate returns `true`. If the predicate returns `false`, it transforms `Some(T)` into `None`.

In your case, the predicate is `foo_val >= 5`, which is the negation of your original condition. If `foo` is `None` or `foo_val` is less than 5, `filter` will return `None`, and then `is_none()` will return `true`, causing `foo.replace(5)` to be executed.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, there is a more idiomatic way to express the same logic using `if let` and `else`:

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    if let Some(foo_val) = foo {
        if foo_val >= 5 {
            // do nothing
        } else {
            foo.replace(5);
        }
    } else {
        foo.replace(5);
    }
}
```

Or, you can use the `map_or` method to make it even more concise:

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    foo = foo.map_or(Some(5), |foo_val| if foo_val < 5 { Some(5) } else { Some(foo_val) });
}
```

In this version, `map_or` applies a function to the value inside the `Option` if it exists, or returns a default value (`Some(5)`) if the `Option` is `None`. The function checks if `foo_val` is less than 5, and if so, returns `Some(5)`, otherwise it returns the original value (`Some(foo_val)`).

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can use the `filter` method on `Option` to achieve this. Here's how you can do it:

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut foo: Option<u8> = None;
    if foo.filter(|&x| x >= 5).is_none() {
        foo = Some(5);
    }
}
```

In this code, `filter` takes a closure that returns `true` if the value should be kept and `false` otherwise. If the `Option` is `None`, or the closure returns `false`, `filter` will return `None`. Then, `is_none` checks if the result is `None`, and if so, replaces `foo` with `Some(5)`.

--------
