
# Post \#68075910 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68075910/)

## How to disable unused variable warning in Rust?

**Vote**: 5 (499/702) **Views**: 5252 (516/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-508

Created at 2021-06-21 23:43:54

Tags: `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

According to [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/25877389/10116440), `#[allow(dead_code)]` should work, but it doesn't
```
fn main() {
    #[allow(dead_code)]
    let x = 0;
}
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `#[allow(dead_code)]` attribute is used to disable the lint that checks for unused code. However, it doesn't work for local variables. It's typically used for functions, structs, enums, etc., that are not used in the code to avoid compiler warnings.

In your case, you're trying to apply it to a local variable `x` which is not used anywhere. The Rust compiler doesn't support this. If you don't want to get a warning for an unused variable, you can prefix the variable name with an underscore:

```rust
fn main() {
    let _x = 0;
}
```

This tells the Rust compiler that you intentionally did not use the variable.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `#[allow(dead_code)]` attribute is used to suppress the compiler warning for unused functions or methods. However, in your case, you are trying to use it for a local variable `x` which is not used anywhere in your code. 

The Rust compiler does not allow the use of `#[allow(dead_code)]` for local variables. It is used for functions, structs, enums, etc., but not for local variables. 

If you want to suppress the warning for an unused variable, you can use an underscore `_` before the variable name. Here's how you can do it:

```rust
fn main() {
    let _x = 0;
}
```

This tells the Rust compiler that you intentionally did not use the variable `x`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `#[allow(dead_code)]` attribute is used to suppress the compiler warning for unused code. However, it is typically used for functions, structs, enums, etc. and not for variables.

In your case, you are trying to use it for a variable `x` which is not used anywhere in the code. The Rust compiler will still give a warning for this.

If you want to suppress the warning for an unused variable, you can use an underscore `_` before the variable name:

```rust
fn main() {
    let _x = 0;
}
```

This tells the Rust compiler that you intentionally did not use the variable `x`.

--------
