
# Post \#69764803 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69764803/)

## How to sort a Vec by indices?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 1507 (625/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-500

Created at 2021-10-29 06:58:14

Tags: `sorting` `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to sort (reorder) a `Vec` in-place by a predefined ordering in Rust.
For example:
```
let i = vec![0, 3, 2, 1];
let mut v = vec!["a", "b", "c", "d"];
v.sort_by_indices(&i);

assert_eq!(v, &["a", "d", "c", "b"]);
```

I would like to do this in-place. In my use case, `v` takes up a lot of memory.
This question is a follow-up to [How to get the indices that would sort a Vec?](https://stackoverflow.com/q/69764050/5299417)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `sort_by_key` method in combination with a closure that maps each element to its corresponding index in the ordering vector. Here's an example:

```
let i = vec![0, 3, 2, 1];
let mut v = vec!["a", "b", "c", "d"];

v.sort_by_key(|&x| i[x]);

assert_eq!(v, &["a", "d", "c", "b"]);
```

The closure `|&x| i[x]` maps each element `x` to its corresponding index in the ordering vector `i`. The `sort_by_key` method then sorts the vector `v` based on these indices.

Note that this method sorts the vector in-place, so it doesn't allocate any additional memory.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `sort_by_key` method along with a closure that maps each element to its corresponding index in the predefined ordering. Here's an example:

```
let i = vec![0, 3, 2, 1];
let mut v = vec!["a", "b", "c", "d"];

v.sort_by_key(|&x| i[x]);

assert_eq!(v, &["a", "d", "c", "b"]);
```

This will sort the vector `v` in-place according to the ordering specified by the vector `i`. The closure passed to `sort_by_key` maps each element `x` to its corresponding index in `i`, which is then used as the sort key.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `sort_by_key` method in combination with a closure that maps each element to its corresponding index in the ordering vector. Here's an example:

```
let i = vec![0, 3, 2, 1];
let mut v = vec!["a", "b", "c", "d"];

v.sort_by_key(|&x| i[x]);

assert_eq!(v, &["a", "d", "c", "b"]);
```

This will sort the vector `v` in-place according to the ordering vector `i`. The closure `|&x| i[x]` maps each element `x` to its corresponding index in `i`, which is then used as the sort key.

--------
