
# Post \#56724014 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56724014/)

## How do I collect the values of a HashMap into a vector?

**Vote**: 47 (131/702) **Views**: 29852 (233/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-503

Created at 2019-06-23 12:45:18

Tags: `rust` `hashmap`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I can not find a way to collect the values of a `HashMap` into a `Vec` in the documentation. I have `score_table: HashMap<Id, Score>` and I want to get all the `Score`s into `all_scores: Vec<Score>`.

I was tempted to use the `values` method (`all_scores = score_table.values()`), but it does not work since values is not a `Vec`.

I know that `Values` implements the `ExactSizeIterator` trait, but I do not know how to collect all values of an iterator into a vector without manually writing a for loop and pushing the values in the vector one after one.

I also tried to `use std::iter::FromIterator;` but ended with something like:

```
all_scores = Vec::from_iter(score_table.values());
```


```
expected type `std::vec::Vec<Score>`
   found type `std::vec::Vec<&Score>`
```


Thanks to [Hash map macro refuses to type-check, failing with a misleading (and seemingly buggy) error message?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52093493/hash-map-macro-refuses-to-type-check-failing-with-a-misleading-and-seemingly-b), I changed it to:

```
all_scores = Vec::from_iter(score_table.values().cloned());
```


and it does not produce errors to `cargo check`.

Is this a good way to do it? 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, using `cloned()` to create a new `Vec` of owned `Score` values is a good way to collect the values of a `HashMap` into a `Vec`. 

The `cloned()` method creates a new iterator that clones each element of the original iterator, which in this case means creating a new `Score` value for each reference to a `Score` in the `HashMap`. This is necessary because the `HashMap` owns the `Score` values, but the `Vec` needs to own its own copies of the `Score` values.

Using `Vec::from_iter()` to create a `Vec` from the cloned iterator is a concise and efficient way to collect the values into a `Vec`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, using `cloned()` to create a new `Vec` with cloned values is a good way to collect the values of a `HashMap` into a `Vec`. 

The `cloned()` method creates a new iterator that clones each element of the original iterator, which in this case are references to `Score` objects. This allows you to create a new `Vec` of `Score` objects instead of a `Vec` of references to `Score` objects.

Using `Vec::from_iter(score_table.values().cloned())` is a concise and efficient way to achieve your goal.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, using `Vec::from_iter(score_table.values().cloned())` is a good way to collect all the values of a `HashMap` into a `Vec`. 

The `values()` method returns an iterator over the values of the `HashMap`, which is not a `Vec`. However, as you mentioned, the `Values` iterator implements the `ExactSizeIterator` trait, which means that we can use the `from_iter` method from the `std::iter::FromIterator` trait to collect the iterator into a `Vec`.

The `cloned()` method is used to create a new iterator that clones each element of the original iterator. This is necessary because the `HashMap` stores references to the values, not the values themselves. Cloning the values will create new instances of the `Score` struct that can be owned by the `Vec`.

So, `Vec::from_iter(score_table.values().cloned())` is a good way to collect all the values of a `HashMap` into a `Vec`.

--------
