
# Post \#62708607 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62708607/)

## How to fix diesel_cli link libpq.lib error with Postgres tools installed in Docker?

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 8269 (455/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-502

Created at 2020-07-03 04:38:51

Tags: `postgresql` `rust` `rust-cargo` `libpq` `rust-diesel`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust` `sql`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying (for hours now) to install the cargo crate `diesel_cli` for postgres. However, every time I run the [recommended](https://diesel.rs/guides/getting-started/) cargo command:
```
cargo install diesel_cli --no-default-features --features postgres
```

I wait a few minutes just to see the same build fail with this message:
```
note: LINK : fatal error LNK1181: cannot open input file 'libpq.lib'

error: aborting due to previous error
error: failed to compile `diesel_cli v1.4.1`, intermediate artifacts can be found at `C:\Users\<user name here>\AppData\Local\Temp\cargo-installUU2DtT`

Caused by:
  could not compile `diesel_cli`.
```

I'm running postgres in a docker container and have the binaries on my `C:\pgsql` with the `lib` and `bin` directories both on the `PATH` so I can't figure out why it's not linking. What else could be required they didn't mention in the docs?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing indicates that the linker can't find the `libpq.lib` file, which is a part of the PostgreSQL library. 

Even though you have the `lib` and `bin` directories on your `PATH`, the Rust build system might not be able to find them. 

Here are some steps you can follow to resolve this issue:

1. **Check the location of `libpq.lib`**: Make sure that the `libpq.lib` file is indeed in the `lib` directory of your PostgreSQL installation. If it's not, you might need to install it or move it to the correct location.

2. **Set the `LIB` and `INCLUDE` environment variables**: The Rust build system uses the `LIB` and `INCLUDE` environment variables to find libraries and headers. You should set these variables to point to the `lib` and `include` directories of your PostgreSQL installation. For example:

    ```
    set LIB=C:\pgsql\lib;%LIB%
    set INCLUDE=C:\pgsql\include;%INCLUDE%
    ```

    You can add these lines to your shell startup script to set these variables automatically every time you open a new shell.

3. **Install the `vcpkg` package manager**: If you're on Windows, you might find it easier to manage your C/C++ libraries with the `vcpkg` package manager. You can install `vcpkg` and then use it to install the `libpq` library:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg.git
    cd vcpkg
    .\bootstrap-vcpkg.bat
    .\vcpkg integrate install
    .\vcpkg install libpq:x64-windows
    ```

    Then, you can set the `VCPKGRS_DYNAMIC` environment variable to tell the Rust build system to use `vcpkg`:

    ```
    set VCPKGRS_DYNAMIC=1
    ```

4. **Re-run the `cargo install` command**: After setting up everything, you should be able to install `diesel_cli` with the same command:

    ```
    cargo install diesel_cli --no-default-features --features postgres
    ```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing indicates that the linker is unable to find the `libpq.lib` file, which is a part of the PostgreSQL library. This file is required to build the `diesel_cli` crate with PostgreSQL support.

Even though you have the PostgreSQL binaries on your `C:\pgsql` and the `lib` and `bin` directories on your `PATH`, the linker might not be able to find the `libpq.lib` file if it's not in a directory that the linker is looking in.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check the location of `libpq.lib`**: Make sure that the `libpq.lib` file is actually in the `lib` directory of your PostgreSQL installation.

2. **Check your `PATH`**: Make sure that the `lib` directory of your PostgreSQL installation is on your `PATH`. You can check your `PATH` by running `echo %PATH%` in the command prompt.

3. **Check your `LIB` environment variable**: The `LIB` environment variable is used by the linker to find library files. You can check your `LIB` environment variable by running `echo %LIB%` in the command prompt. If the `lib` directory of your PostgreSQL installation is not on your `LIB` environment variable, you can add it by running `set LIB=C:\pgsql\lib;%LIB%`.

4. **Install `libpq` with `vcpkg`**: If you're still having trouble, you can try installing `libpq` with `vcpkg`, a package manager for C++ libraries. Here's how you can do it:

   - Install `vcpkg` by following the instructions on the [vcpkg GitHub page](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg).
   - Install `libpq` with `vcpkg` by running `vcpkg install libpq:x64-windows` in the command prompt.
   - Set the `VCPKGRS_DYNAMIC` environment variable to `1` by running `set VCPKGRS_DYNAMIC=1`.
   - Try installing `diesel_cli` again.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing suggests that the linker is unable to find the `libpq.lib` file. This file is a part of the PostgreSQL library, and it's required to build the `diesel_cli` crate with PostgreSQL support.

Even though you have the PostgreSQL binaries on your `C:\pgsql` and the `lib` and `bin` directories on your `PATH`, it's possible that the build process is not finding the `libpq.lib` file.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check the `lib` directory:** Make sure that the `libpq.lib` file is actually present in the `lib` directory of your PostgreSQL installation.

2. **Check your `PATH` variable:** Make sure that the `PATH` environment variable includes the `lib` directory of your PostgreSQL installation. You can check your `PATH` by running `echo %PATH%` in the command prompt.

3. **Use the `PQ_LIB_DIR` environment variable:** You can specify the path to the `lib` directory of your PostgreSQL installation using the `PQ_LIB_DIR` environment variable. You can set this variable by running `set PQ_LIB_DIR=C:\pgsql\lib` in the command prompt before you run the `cargo install` command.

4. **Install the `vcpkg` package manager:** If you're on Windows, you might find it easier to install the `libpq` library using the `vcpkg` package manager. You can install `vcpkg` by following the instructions on its GitHub page. Once you've installed `vcpkg`, you can install `libpq` by running `vcpkg install libpq:x64-windows`. Then, you can set the `PQ_LIB_DIR` environment variable to the `lib` directory of the `vcpkg` installation.

5. **Reinstall PostgreSQL:** If all else fails, you might want to try reinstalling PostgreSQL. It's possible that your installation is missing some necessary files or that it was installed in a way that's causing problems with the build process.

--------
