
# Post \#69764803 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69764803/)

## How to sort a Vec by indices?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 1507 (625/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-500

Created at 2021-10-29 06:58:14

Tags: `sorting` `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to sort (reorder) a `Vec` in-place by a predefined ordering in Rust.
For example:
```
let i = vec![0, 3, 2, 1];
let mut v = vec!["a", "b", "c", "d"];
v.sort_by_indices(&i);

assert_eq!(v, &["a", "d", "c", "b"]);
```

I would like to do this in-place. In my use case, `v` takes up a lot of memory.
This question is a follow-up to [How to get the indices that would sort a Vec?](https://stackoverflow.com/q/69764050/5299417)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Rust's standard library does not provide a built-in function to sort a vector by a given index vector. However, you can achieve this by using a custom function. Here's an example of how you can do it:

```rust
fn sort_by_indices<T: Clone>(v: &mut Vec<T>, indices: &[usize]) {
    let mut temp = v.clone();
    for (i, &index) in indices.iter().enumerate() {
        v[i] = temp[index].clone();
    }
}
```

You can use this function like this:

```rust
let i = vec![0, 3, 2, 1];
let mut v = vec!["a", "b", "c", "d"];
sort_by_indices(&mut v, &i);

assert_eq!(v, vec!["a", "d", "c", "b"]);
```

This function works by creating a temporary copy of the original vector and then replacing the elements in the original vector with the elements from the temporary vector at the specified indices.

However, this solution is not in-place because it creates a temporary copy of the original vector. If your vector is very large and you are concerned about memory usage, you may need to use a more complex algorithm that can sort the vector in-place. Unfortunately, such an algorithm would be quite complex and beyond the scope of this answer.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Rust, you can use the `sort_unstable_by_key` function to sort a vector in-place. However, there's no built-in function to sort a vector by another vector of indices. You can create a custom function to achieve this.

Here's an example of how you can do it:

```rust
fn sort_by_indices<T: Clone>(v: &mut Vec<T>, indices: &[usize]) {
    let mut temp = v.clone();
    for (i, &index) in indices.iter().enumerate() {
        v[i] = temp[index].clone();
    }
}
```

You can use this function like this:

```rust
let i = vec![0, 3, 2, 1];
let mut v = vec!["a", "b", "c", "d"];
sort_by_indices(&mut v, &i);

assert_eq!(v, vec!["a", "d", "c", "b"]);
```

This function works by creating a temporary copy of the original vector, then replacing each element in the original vector with the element at the corresponding index in the temporary vector.

However, this solution is not in-place as it creates a temporary copy of the vector. Unfortunately, there's no way to sort a vector in-place by another vector of indices in Rust without creating a temporary copy of the vector, because Rust's ownership model doesn't allow multiple mutable references to the same vector.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Rust's standard library does not provide a built-in method to sort a vector by a predefined ordering. However, you can achieve this by using a custom function. Here's how you can do it:

```rust
fn sort_by_indices<T: Clone>(v: &mut Vec<T>, indices: &[usize]) {
    let mut temp = v.clone();
    for (i, &index) in indices.iter().enumerate() {
        v[i] = temp[index].clone();
    }
}
```

You can use this function like this:

```rust
let i = vec![0, 3, 2, 1];
let mut v = vec!["a", "b", "c", "d"];
sort_by_indices(&mut v, &i);

assert_eq!(v, vec!["a", "d", "c", "b"]);
```

This function works by creating a temporary copy of the vector, then it iterates over the indices vector and assigns the elements from the temporary vector to the original vector in the order specified by the indices.

Please note that this function requires the elements of the vector to implement the `Clone` trait because it needs to create a temporary copy of the vector. If your vector takes up a lot of memory and you can't afford to create a copy, you might need to use a more complex algorithm that sorts the vector in-place. This would likely involve swapping elements in the vector, which can be more complex and error-prone.

--------
