
# Post \#58669865 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58669865/)

## How to get the minimum value within a vector in Rust?

**Vote**: 48 (127/702) **Views**: 47785 (170/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-506

Created at 2019-11-02 09:39:38

Tags: `rust`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to display the minimum value within a vector in Rust and can't find a good way to do so.
Given a vector of `i32` :
```
let mut v = vec![5, 6, 8, 4, 2, 7];
```

My goal here is to get the minimum value of that vector without having to sort it.
What is the best way to get the minimum value within a `Vec<i32>` in Rust ?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `iter()` method to create an iterator over the vector, and then use the `min()` method to get the minimum value. Here's an example:

```
let v = vec![5, 6, 8, 4, 2, 7];
let min_value = *v.iter().min().unwrap();
println!("Minimum value: {}", min_value);
```

In this example, `v.iter()` creates an iterator over the vector `v`, and `min()` returns an `Option<&i32>` containing the minimum value. The `unwrap()` method is used to extract the value from the `Option`, and the `*` operator is used to dereference the resulting reference to `i32`.

This will output:

```
Minimum value: 2
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `iter()` method to create an iterator over the vector, and then use the `min()` method to get the minimum value. Here's an example:

```
let v = vec![5, 6, 8, 4, 2, 7];
let min_value = *v.iter().min().unwrap();
println!("The minimum value is {}", min_value);
```

In this example, `v.iter()` creates an iterator over the vector, and `min()` returns an `Option<&i32>` containing the minimum value. We then use the `unwrap()` method to get the `i32` value itself, and the `*` operator to dereference the resulting reference.

This will output:

```
The minimum value is 2
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `iter()` method on the vector to create an iterator and then use the `min()` method on the iterator to get the minimum value. Here's an example:

```
let v = vec![5, 6, 8, 4, 2, 7];
let min_value = v.iter().min().unwrap();
println!("The minimum value is {}", min_value);
```

This will output:

```
The minimum value is 2
```

The `min()` method returns an `Option<&i32>` because the iterator may be empty. In this case, we know that the vector is not empty, so we can use the `unwrap()` method to get the `i32` value directly.

--------
