
# Post \#71267256 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71267256/)

## How to avoid nested chains of "if let"?

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 2769 (579/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-10-490

Created at 2022-02-25 14:23:16

Tags: `rust` `refactoring` `readability`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `rust` (full parsed tag list: `rust`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm wading through a codebase full of code like this:
```
if let Some(i) = func1() {
    if let Some(j) = func2(i) {
        if let Some(k) = func3(j) {
            if let Some(result) = func4(k) {
                // Do something with result
            } else {
                println!("func 4 returned None");
            }
        } else {
            println!("func 3 returned None");
        }
    } else {
        println!("func 2 returned None");
    }
} else {
    println!("func 1 returned None");
}
```

That's a stupid, simplified example, but the general pattern is that:
- `Option`- `None`- `Some`- `None``None`
The problem, of course, is that the above code is an ugly and unreadable. It gets even uglier when you substitute `i`, `func1` etc. with variable/function names that actually mean something in the real code, and many examples in my real codebase have far more than four nested `if let`s. It's an example of the [arrow anti-pattern](http://wiki.c2.com/?ArrowAntiPattern), it completely fails the [squint test](https://atom.io/packages/squint-test), and it's confusing how the error messages appear in reverse order to the functions which can cause them.
Is there really not a better way to do this? I want to refactor the above into something that has a cleaner, flatter structure where everything appears in a sensible order. [if let chaining](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2497-if-let-chains.html) might help but it doesn't look like that feature is available in Rust yet. I thought maybe I could clean things up by using `?` and/or extracting some helper functions, but I couldn't get it to work and I'd rather not extract a ton of new functions all over the place if I can avoid it.
Here's the best I could come up with:
```
let i : u64;
let j : u64;
let k : u64;
let result : u64;

if let Some(_i) = func1() {
    i = _i;
} else {
   println!("func 1 returned None");
   return;
}
if let Some(_j) = func2(i) {
    j = _j;
} else {
   println!("func 2 returned None");
   return;
}
if let Some(_k) = func3(j) {
    k = _k;
} else {
   println!("func 3 returned None");
   return;
}
if let Some(_result) = func3(k) {
    result = _result;
} else {
   println!("func 4 returned None");
   return;
}


// Do something with result
```

But this still feels very long and verbose, and I don't like how I'm introducing these extra variables `_i`, `_j` etc.
Is there something I'm not seeing here? What's the simplest and cleanest way to write what I want to write?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `?` operator to simplify this code. The `?` operator is used after an expression that returns `Result` or `Option`, and will return early if the `Result` is `Err` or the `Option` is `None`. 

However, the `?` operator can only be used in functions that return `Result` or `Option`. So, you will need to change your function to return `Option<()>` or `Result<(), &'static str>`. 

Here's how you can refactor your code using `?` operator:

```rust
fn main() -> Result<(), &'static str> {
    let i = func1().ok_or("func 1 returned None")?;
    let j = func2(i).ok_or("func 2 returned None")?;
    let k = func3(j).ok_or("func 3 returned None")?;
    let result = func4(k).ok_or("func 4 returned None")?;

    // Do something with result

    Ok(())
}
```

In this code, `ok_or` is used to convert `Option` to `Result`. If the `Option` is `None`, it will return `Err` with the provided error message. If the `Option` is `Some`, it will return `Ok` with the value inside `Some`.

The `?` operator will then check the `Result`. If it's `Ok`, it will take the value out of `Ok` and continue the execution. If it's `Err`, it will return early with the error.

This way, your code is much cleaner and easier to read. The error messages also appear in the same order as the functions that can cause them.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `?` operator to simplify this code. The `?` operator is used after an expression that returns `Result` or `Option`, and will return early if the `Result` is `Err` or the `Option` is `None`. 

However, the `?` operator can only be used in functions that return `Result` or `Option`. So, you would need to change your function to return `Option<()>` or `Result<(), &'static str>`. 

Here's how you could refactor your code using `?` and `Result`:

```rust
fn main() -> Result<(), &'static str> {
    let i = func1().ok_or("func 1 returned None")?;
    let j = func2(i).ok_or("func 2 returned None")?;
    let k = func3(j).ok_or("func 3 returned None")?;
    let result = func4(k).ok_or("func 4 returned None")?;

    // Do something with result

    Ok(())
}
```

In this code, `ok_or` is used to convert `Option` to `Result`. If the `Option` is `None`, it will become `Err` with the provided error message. If the `Option` is `Some`, it will become `Ok` with the contained value.

Then, the `?` operator is used to either get the value from `Ok`, or return early with `Err`. This way, the code is much flatter and easier to read.

If you want to stick with `Option` and just print the error messages, you can do something similar with a custom function:

```rust
fn print_and_return_none(error: &'static str) -> Option<()> {
    println!("{}", error);
    None
}

fn main() {
    let i = func1().or_else(|| print_and_return_none("func 1 returned None"))?;
    let j = func2(i).or_else(|| print_and_return_none("func 2 returned None"))?;
    let k = func3(j).or_else(|| print_and_return_none("func 3 returned None"))?;
    let result = func4(k).or_else(|| print_and_return_none("func 4 returned None"))?;

    // Do something with result
}
```

In this code, `or_else` is used to either get the value from `Some`, or call the provided function if the `Option` is `None`. The provided function will print the error message and return `None`, causing the `?` operator to return early.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `?` operator to simplify your code. The `?` operator is used after an expression that returns `Result` or `Option`, and will return early if the `Result` is `Err` or the `Option` is `None`.

However, the `?` operator can only be used in functions that return `Result` or `Option`. So, if your function doesn't already return `Result` or `Option`, you'll need to change it to do so.

Here's how you could rewrite your code using the `?` operator:

```rust
fn main() -> Result<(), &'static str> {
    let i = func1().ok_or("func 1 returned None")?;
    let j = func2(i).ok_or("func 2 returned None")?;
    let k = func3(j).ok_or("func 3 returned None")?;
    let result = func4(k).ok_or("func 4 returned None")?;

    // Do something with result

    Ok(())
}
```

In this code, `ok_or` is used to convert the `Option` returned by each function to a `Result`. If the `Option` is `None`, `ok_or` will create an `Err` with the provided error message, and the `?` operator will cause the function to return early with that error. If the `Option` is `Some`, `ok_or` will create an `Ok` with the contained value, and the `?` operator will unwrap that value.

This code is much shorter and flatter than your original code, and the error messages appear in the same order as the functions that can cause them. It also avoids the need for the extra `_i`, `_j`, etc. variables.

--------
