
# Post \#73699502 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73699502/)

## unique_lock same mutex in different thread

**Vote**: -1 (699/702) **Views**: 550 (694/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-527

Created at 2022-09-13 08:04:54

Tags: `c++` `multithreading` `c++11`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

i am looking at this piece of code:
```
#include <chrono>
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <mutex>
#include <shared_mutex>
#include <string>
#include <thread>

bool flag;
std::mutex m;

void wait_for_flag() {
  // std::cout << &m << std::endl;
  // return;
  std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(m);
  while (!flag) {
    lk.unlock();
    std::cout << "unlocked....." << std::endl;
    std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::milliseconds(100));
    std::cout << "sleeping....." << std::endl;
    lk.lock();
    std::cout << "locked by " << std::this_thread::get_id() << "....."
              << std::endl;
  }
}

int main(int argc, char const *argv[]) {
  std::thread t(wait_for_flag);
  std::thread t2(wait_for_flag);
  std::thread t3(wait_for_flag);
  std::thread t4(wait_for_flag);
  std::thread t5(wait_for_flag);

  t.join();
  t2.join();
  t3.join();
  t4.join();
  t5.join();

  return 0;
}
```

I am new to this, and I thought mutex can only be acquired by one thread. I got two questions:

1. why there is no deadlock among those threads, e.g. if thread A runs lk.unlock(), then thread B runs lk.lock() and then thread A runs lk.lock().
2. what does it mean we define a new unique_lock in every thread associating to the same mutex lock (which is called m in here)


Thanks


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

1. The reason there is no deadlock among those threads is because of the way the `std::unique_lock` is being used. When a thread calls `lk.unlock()`, it releases the mutex, allowing other threads to acquire it. Then, the thread sleeps for a short period of time before trying to reacquire the mutex with `lk.lock()`. If another thread has acquired the mutex in the meantime, the calling thread will block until the mutex is available again. This is a form of busy waiting, where the thread repeatedly releases and reacquires the mutex until the condition it's waiting for (`flag`) becomes true. It's important to note that this isn't the most efficient way to wait for a condition, and in a real-world scenario you'd likely use a condition variable instead.

2. `std::unique_lock` is a class template that provides a RAII-style mechanism for owning a mutex for the duration of a scoped block. When a `std::unique_lock` object is created, it attempts to take ownership of the mutex it's given. When control leaves the scope in which the `std::unique_lock` object was created, the `std::unique_lock` is destructed and the mutex is released. In this code, a new `std::unique_lock` is created in each thread and associated with the same mutex (`m`). This means that each thread will try to acquire the mutex when it starts, and will release it when it finishes. This is a way of ensuring that the threads don't interfere with each other's work.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

1. The reason there is no deadlock among those threads is because of the way the mutex is being used. When a thread enters the `wait_for_flag` function, it locks the mutex. If the flag is not set, it unlocks the mutex and then sleeps for a bit. This allows other threads to enter the function and lock the mutex. When the thread wakes up, it tries to lock the mutex again. If another thread has locked the mutex, it will block until the mutex is unlocked. This cycle continues until the flag is set. There is no deadlock because the threads are not holding onto the mutex while they are waiting for the flag to be set. They release the mutex before they start waiting, which allows other threads to make progress.

2. `std::unique_lock` is a RAII style mechanism for owning a mutex for the duration of a scoped block. When a `std::unique_lock` object is created, it attempts to take ownership of the mutex it is given. When control leaves the scope in which the `std::unique_lock` object was created, the `std::unique_lock` is destructed and the mutex is released. The reason a new `std::unique_lock` is defined in every thread is because each thread needs to independently acquire and release the lock. Even though they are all locking the same mutex, they are doing it at different times, so they each need their own `std::unique_lock` object.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

1. Deadlock is avoided in this code because of the way the lock and unlock operations are used. When a thread calls `lk.unlock()`, it releases the mutex, allowing other threads to acquire it. Then, it goes to sleep for 100 milliseconds. During this time, other threads have the opportunity to acquire the mutex. When the thread wakes up, it tries to re-acquire the mutex with `lk.lock()`. If another thread is currently holding the mutex, the calling thread will block until the mutex is available. This is not a deadlock situation because the thread holding the mutex will eventually release it, allowing the blocked thread to proceed. 

2. `std::unique_lock` is a general-purpose mutex ownership wrapper. It allows deferred locking, time-constrained attempts at locking, recursive locking, transfer of lock ownership, and use of conditional variables. In this code, `std::unique_lock` is used to automatically handle the locking and unlocking of the mutex. When a `std::unique_lock` object is created, it attempts to take ownership of the mutex. When the `std::unique_lock` goes out of scope, it automatically releases the mutex. This is a safer way to handle mutexes compared to manually locking and unlocking, because it ensures that the mutex is always properly released, even if an exception is thrown. 

In this code, a new `std::unique_lock` is created in each thread, all associated with the same mutex. This is because each thread needs to independently acquire and release the mutex. The `std::unique_lock` object is local to the function, so each thread has its own separate `std::unique_lock` object. However, all these `std::unique_lock` objects are associated with the same mutex, so they are all coordinating access to the same shared resource.

--------
