
# Post \#64448328 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64448328/)

## Is `new` in `new int;` considered an operator?

**Vote**: 85 (75/702) **Views**: 8462 (449/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-516

Created at 2020-10-20 15:24:44

Tags: `c++` `language-lawyer`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

The expression `new int;` such as in `int * x = new int;` is a [new expression](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/new). The term "new operator" seems to be used interchangeably with "new expression", for example in this question : [Difference between 'new operator' and 'operator new'?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1885849/difference-between-new-operator-and-operator-new)
Is it correct to say that the keyword [new](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/keyword/new) as it is used in a new expression is an operator? Why or why not?
If not, is there another justification for calling a new expression "new operator"?
I am having trouble finding an authoritative definition for what constitutes an operator.
I already understand the distinction between [operator new](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/new/operator_new) which allocates memory for an object and "new expression" which may eventually call an `operator new`.


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 143

Created at 2020-10-20 15:58:52

------------

`new` in `new int` is not considered to be an operator. It is also not considered to be  an operator.
The C++ standard is really vague, and even inconsistent, about what constitutes an 'operator'. When listing operators (as defined during lexing and preprocessing), it lists them along with "punctuators" (things like `(`), but never really gives any rules for punctuators in general. It lists `new` as both a keyword and an operator. It lists `sizeof` in the set of keywords but NOT in the set of operators, but later refers to it as an operator.
The takeaway here is that the C++ standards committee is not overly concerned with separating the lexical world into "operators" and "non-operators". This is because there isn't really any need to. There's no grammatical rules which apply to all operators or all non-operators. Important sets, like the set of  operators, are given separately; grammatical rules for things like binary arithmetic expressions are given one at a time.
Basically, "operator" is not a category which is formally meaningful to the C++ language, so any categorical answer is going to be based on how it "feels". You can call it an operator if you like, but you can also call it a keyword (or a punctuator!) and the language standard will not disagree with you.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 16

Created at 2020-10-20 15:44:59

------------

> Is it correct to say that the keyword `new` as it is used in a  is an operator? Why or why not?
No. The `new` in a  is a keyword identifying a .
A   an `operator new` or `operator new[]` to get storage. It also initializes that storage, and de-allocates it (with `operator delete` or `operator delete[]`) if the initialization throws.
There's a clear distinction, in that `operator new` is only referred to as a  user-replaceable function, and a  does more than just call this function.
Reference: [7.6.2.8/10](http://eel.is/c++draft/expr.new#10) `[expr.new]`
> A  may obtain storage for the object by calling an allocation function (`[basic.stc.dynamic.allocation]`).
If the  terminates by throwing an exception, it may release storage by calling a deallocation function.
If the allocated type is a non-array type, the allocation function's name is `operator new` and the deallocation function's name is `operator delete`.
If the allocated type is an array type, the allocation function's name is `operator new[]` and the deallocation function's name is `operator delete[]`.

---


Consider by way of counterexample, that we define both
```
T operator+(T, T);
void* T::operator new(std::size_t);
```

for some type T, then addition in either form:
```
T a, b;
T c = a + b;
T d = T::operator +(a, b);
```

is identical. The infix notation is just syntactic sugar for the operator call.
Allocation however, behaves very differently:
```
T *p = new T;
// does much more than
void *v = T::operator new(sizeof(T));
```

so it's not reasonable to call the  syntactic sugar for a call to `operator new`. Thus, the `new` keyword isn't simply selecting the function to call. It can't be, or it would have to mention the `operator delete` function that might also be called.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 12

Created at 2020-10-20 15:41:19

------------

I would only call it  to avoid confusion with `void* operator new ( std::size_t count )` which only allocates memory as part of the process the   invoices (allocation memory, starting lifetime, calling constructor).
The problem with `new` is that it does more than just calling the `operator new`. Which is a bit confusing because for `x + y` the `+` only calls `operator +`.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 9

Created at 2020-10-20 15:46:10

------------

This is governed by [[expr.new]](https://timsong-cpp.github.io/cppwp/n4659/expr.new), which clearly differentiates between a  and how a new expression may obtain storage by means of , which is named `operator new`. Particularly, from  [[expr.new]/8](https://timsong-cpp.github.io/cppwp/n4659/expr.new#) [ mine]:
>  for the object by calling an allocation function ([basic.stc.dynamic.allocation]). If the new-expression terminates by throwing an exception, it may release storage by calling a deallocation function. If the allocated type is a non-array type, `operator new` and the deallocation function's name is operator delete. If the allocated type is an array type, `new[]` and the deallocation function's name is operator `delete[]`.

---


> Is it correct to say that the keyword `new` as it is used in a new expression is an operator?
Particularly, the example, albeit non-normative, of [[expr.new]/4](https://timsong-cpp.github.io/cppwp/n4659/expr.new#4) describe this function as an operator function;  `new`:
> [...] Instead, the explicitly parenthesized version of the new operator can be used [...]


------------
    
    
## Answer \#4

 Vote: 8

Created at 2020-10-20 15:56:25

------------


Well, sort of yes, in the sense that there exist people who consider `new` in `new int` to be an operator. However, this opinion is (mostly) at odds with the standard.
Firstly, [[lex.operators/1]](http://eel.is/c++draft/lex.operators#1) lists the operators in the language. Don't be fooled into thinking that these are just "preprocessing operators", either; no such distinction exists in the sense of  operators. It wouldn't make sense, either, since you cannot (for example) `++` a macro.
`new` is, in fact, a  (per [[lex.key/1]](http://eel.is/c++draft/lex.key#1)).
Next, let's look at  itself. This is where things get a little more wooly.  There is, for example, the following wording in [[expr.new/4]](http://eel.is/c++draft/expr.new#4):
> Instead, the explicitly parenthesized version of the new operator can be used to create objects of compound types
I consider this to be an editorial error, since it is at odds with the definitions provided above, and does not occur anywhere else in that section.
Then we come to . In its grammatical production for an operator declaration, the terminal listing things (including `new`) is named  ([[over.oper.general/1]](https://eel.is/c++draft/over.oper.general#1)). I don't think we need to worry about this. The names of terminals in the grammar have never been intended to introduce definitions of terms. After all, you have  that _doesn't need to be a bitwise AND operation; [it can just be an equality-expression](https://eel.is/c++draft/expr.compound#expr.bit.and):
> :
   
    `&` 
It's common to define grammars like this, and it certainly doesn't mean that every  is somehow to be considered an invocation of the bitwise AND operator.
Finally, some have claimed that the following wording (also in the operator overloading section) is proof that `new` is somehow now, in isolation, magically an operator:
> The operators `new[]`, `delete[]`, `()`, and `[]` are formed from more than one token
To them I say, not only is `new` not even listed, but this is clearly using the term "operator" in the more broad sense of "things that can be overloaded", even though `new` in itself . It's also in a non-normative note, which should tell you all you need to know.
And, as you point out yourself, `operator new`


------------
    
    
## Answer \#5

 Vote: 7

Created at 2020-10-20 15:35:28

------------

While I know you're looking for a semantical answer, as far as opinion I would say it's a "keyword" (as it's clearly reserved), and I assume we both know that it's simply C++'s construct for memory allocation. That said, when I think of C++'s "operator"s, I tend to think of functions with a set input/output that can be overriden for specific types. new is the same for all types (and more confusingly it can be overridden).
Not sure how official cppreference is, but:
> The new-expression allocates storage by calling the appropriate allocation function. If type is a non-array type, the name of the function is operator new. If type is an array type, the name of the function is operator new[]
[https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/new](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/new)
It seems to follow then that `new <type>` is an expression to allocate memory, while `new` is the operator for that expression.
Using that same logic:
- `sizeof``sizeof(<type>)``sizeof`- `+``<type> <operator> <type>`- `throw``throw <throwaable>`


------------
    
    