
# Post \#60334299 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60334299/)

## clang format: disable ordering includes

**Vote**: 19 (269/702) **Views**: 14281 (367/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-528

Created at 2020-02-21 07:55:35

Tags: `c++` `include` `clang-format`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

In our C++ project, the order of our includes is regularly changed. This is a problem since we are using some third-party libraries which require a specific include order to avoid problems. 

I know, this is bad but we have to deal with it. 

Unfortunately, the order of our includes is regularly changed and I suppose that this is due to `clang-format`. I found a [page](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormatStyleOptions.html) where you can specify a variable `includeCategories`. 
However, I do not fully understand how it works. 
I simply want to completely disable the ordering of includes. 
How can I do this? 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can disable the ordering of includes in `clang-format` by setting the `SortIncludes` option to `false` in your `.clang-format` configuration file. 

Here is an example of how to do it:

```
---
BasedOnStyle: LLVM
SortIncludes: false
...
```

This will prevent `clang-format` from sorting your `#include` directives. 

The `SortIncludes` option is `true` by default in many styles, including the LLVM, Google, Chromium, Mozilla, and WebKit styles. If you are using one of these styles as a base, you need to explicitly set `SortIncludes: false` to disable include sorting. 

Please note that this will apply to all files that are formatted using this `.clang-format` file. If you want to disable sorting only for specific files, you might need to use different `.clang-format` files for different parts of your project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can disable the ordering of includes in `clang-format` by setting the `SortIncludes` option to `false` in your `.clang-format` or `_clang-format` file. 

Here is an example of how to do it:

```yaml
---
Language:        Cpp
# BasedOnStyle:  Google
SortIncludes:    false
...
```

This will prevent `clang-format` from sorting your `#include` directives. 

The `SortIncludes` option is `true` by default in many of the predefined styles, like LLVM, Google, Chromium, Mozilla, and WebKit. So, if you are using one of these styles as a base, you need to explicitly set `SortIncludes` to `false` to disable include sorting.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can disable the ordering of includes in `clang-format` by setting the `SortIncludes` option to `false` in your `.clang-format` or `_clang-format` file.

Here is an example of how to do it:

```yaml
---
Language:        Cpp
# Based on Google style
BasedOnStyle:  Google
SortIncludes:    false
...
```

This will prevent `clang-format` from sorting `#include` directives. 

The `SortIncludes` option is `true` by default in many styles, including the Google, LLVM, Chromium, Mozilla, and WebKit styles. If you're using one of these styles as a base, you'll need to explicitly set `SortIncludes: false` to disable include sorting.

--------
