
# Post \#68444429 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68444429/)

## How can I distinguish between high- and low-performance cores/threads in C++?

**Vote**: 71 (93/702) **Views**: 8071 (464/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-522

Created at 2021-07-19 17:06:31

Tags: `c++` `multithreading` `performance` `intel` `apple-m1`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When talking about multi-threading, it often seems like threads are treated as equal - just the same as the main thread, but running next to it.
On some new processors, however, such as the [Apple "M" series](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_silicon#M_series) and the upcoming Intel [Alder Lake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alder_Lake_(microprocessor)) series not all threads are equally as performant as these chips feature separate high-performance cores and high-efficiency, slower cores.
It’s not to say that there weren’t already things such as hyper-threading, but this seems to have a much larger performance implication.
Is there a way to query `std::thread`‘s properties and enforce on which cores they’ll run in C++?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, it is possible to query and enforce the affinity of `std::thread` in C++. The affinity of a thread refers to the set of processor cores on which it is allowed to run. 

In C++, the `std::thread` class provides a `native_handle()` function that returns a platform-specific handle to the underlying thread object. On some platforms, such as Linux, this handle can be used to set the affinity of the thread using system calls such as `sched_setaffinity()`.

Here's an example of how to set the affinity of a `std::thread` to a specific core on Linux:

```c++
#include <thread>
#include <sched.h>

int main() {
    std::thread t([](){
        // Thread code here
    });

    cpu_set_t cpuset;
    CPU_ZERO(&cpuset);
    CPU_SET(0, &cpuset); // Set affinity to core 0
    pthread_setaffinity_np(t.native_handle(), sizeof(cpu_set_t), &cpuset);

    t.join();
    return 0;
}
```

In this example, we create a `std::thread` object and then use the `pthread_setaffinity_np()` function to set its affinity to core 0. The `CPU_ZERO()` and `CPU_SET()` macros are used to initialize and set the `cpuset` variable, which is then passed to `pthread_setaffinity_np()`.

Note that the `pthread_setaffinity_np()` function is not part of the C++ standard library and is platform-specific. On Windows, for example, you would need to use the `SetThreadAffinityMask()` function to set the affinity of a thread.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, it is possible to query and enforce on which cores `std::thread` will run in C++. 

To query the properties of a thread, you can use the `std::thread::hardware_concurrency()` function, which returns the number of hardware threads supported by the system. This can be useful for determining the maximum number of threads that can be created without causing contention.

To enforce on which cores a thread will run, you can use the `std::thread::native_handle()` function to obtain the underlying native thread handle, and then use platform-specific APIs to set the thread's affinity to a specific core or set of cores. 

On Windows, you can use the `SetThreadAffinityMask()` function to set the affinity mask for a thread. On Linux, you can use the `sched_setaffinity()` function to set the CPU affinity mask for a thread. 

Here is an example of how to set the affinity of a thread to a specific core on Windows:

```c++
#include <thread>
#include <windows.h>

void my_thread_func()
{
    // ...
}

int main()
{
    // Create a thread
    std::thread my_thread(my_thread_func);

    // Get the native handle for the thread
    HANDLE thread_handle = (HANDLE)my_thread.native_handle();

    // Set the affinity mask to core 0
    DWORD_PTR affinity_mask = 1;
    SetThreadAffinityMask(thread_handle, affinity_mask);

    // Wait for the thread to finish
    my_thread.join();

    return 0;
}
```

Note that setting the affinity of a thread can have performance implications, and should be done with care. It is generally best to let the operating system handle thread scheduling, unless there is a specific reason to manually set the affinity.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, there are ways to query and enforce thread affinity in C++. Thread affinity refers to the ability to control which CPU cores a thread is allowed to run on. This can be useful in situations where you want to optimize performance by ensuring that certain threads are always running on the same core.

In C++, you can use the `std::thread::native_handle()` function to get the underlying native thread handle, which can be used to set the thread affinity. The native handle is specific to the operating system, so the method for setting thread affinity will vary depending on the platform.

On Windows, you can use the `SetThreadAffinityMask()` function to set the affinity mask for a thread. The affinity mask is a bit mask that specifies the set of processors on which a thread is allowed to run. You can create an affinity mask using the `DWORD_PTR` data type and the `SetThreadAffinityMask()` function.

On Linux, you can use the `pthread_setaffinity_np()` function to set the CPU affinity for a thread. This function takes a `cpu_set_t` data type as an argument, which is a set of CPUs that the thread is allowed to run on.

Here's an example of how to set the thread affinity on Windows:

```
#include <windows.h>
#include <thread>

void my_thread_func() {
    // Get the native handle for the current thread
    HANDLE thread_handle = GetCurrentThread();

    // Set the affinity mask to CPU 0
    DWORD_PTR affinity_mask = 1;
    SetThreadAffinityMask(thread_handle, affinity_mask);
}

int main() {
    // Create a new thread
    std::thread my_thread(my_thread_func);

    // Wait for the thread to finish
    my_thread.join();

    return 0;
}
```

And here's an example of how to set the thread affinity on Linux:

```
#include <pthread.h>
#include <thread>

void my_thread_func() {
    // Get the native handle for the current thread
    pthread_t thread_handle = pthread_self();

    // Set the CPU affinity to CPU 0
    cpu_set_t cpu_set;
    CPU_ZERO(&cpu_set);
    CPU_SET(0, &cpu_set);
    pthread_setaffinity_np(thread_handle, sizeof(cpu_set_t), &cpu_set);
}

int main() {
    // Create a new thread
    std::thread my_thread(my_thread_func);

    // Wait for the thread to finish
    my_thread.join();

    return 0;
}
```

Note that setting thread affinity can have unintended consequences if not done carefully. For example, if you set the affinity for a thread to a single core, that thread will not be able to take advantage of any additional cores that become available. Additionally, setting the affinity for a thread can interfere with the operating system's ability to schedule threads efficiently. So, use thread affinity judiciously and only when it's necessary to optimize performance.

--------
