
# Post \#68502197 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68502197/)

## How do "omp single" and "omp task" provide parallelism?

**Vote**: 5 (499/702) **Views**: 2108 (600/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-512

Created at 2021-07-23 16:15:36

Tags: `c++` `parallel-processing` `openmp`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am confused about `omp single` and `omp task` directives. I have read several examples which use both of them. The following example shows how to use the task construct to process elements of a linked list.
```
1  #pragma omp parallel
2  {
3      #pragma omp single
4      {
5          for(node* p = head; p; p = p->next)
6          {
7              #pragma omp task
8              process(p); 
9          }
10     }
11 }
```

I am failing to understand the parallelism in this example. With `omp single`, only one thread will execute the structured block related to the single construct, is it right? In this example, Lines 4-10 is the structured block related to the single construct and it can be executed only once, then why we can use `omp task` inside this structured block? How can it be worked in a parallel manner?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, you are correct that the `omp single` directive means that the block of code it surrounds will be executed by only one thread. However, this does not mean that the tasks created within this block will also be executed by only one thread.

In your example, the `omp single` directive is used to ensure that the loop itself is only executed by one thread. This is necessary because the loop is iterating over a linked list, which is not a thread-safe operation. If multiple threads were allowed to iterate over the list at the same time, it could lead to race conditions and undefined behavior.

Inside the loop, the `omp task` directive is used to create a new task for each node in the list. These tasks are not executed immediately; instead, they are added to a task pool. The OpenMP runtime system then schedules these tasks for execution on any available threads.

So, while the loop itself is executed by a single thread, the tasks created within the loop can be executed in parallel by multiple threads. This is how the code achieves parallelism, even though it uses the `omp single` directive.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you're correct that the `omp single` directive means that the block of code it encapsulates will be executed by only one thread. However, this doesn't mean that the tasks created within this block will also be executed by only one thread.

The `omp task` directive is used to create a task that can be executed in parallel with the rest of the code. When a task is encountered, it is not immediately executed. Instead, it is put into a task pool that the OpenMP runtime system manages. The tasks in this pool can then be executed by any thread in the team, not just the one that encountered the task.

In your example, one thread (due to `omp single`) is responsible for traversing the linked list and creating tasks (due to `omp task`) for each node. These tasks are then added to the task pool. The other threads in the team, which are not involved in the traversal of the list, can then pick up these tasks from the pool and execute them in parallel.

So, while the creation of tasks is done by a single thread, the execution of these tasks is done in parallel by multiple threads. This is how parallelism is achieved in this example.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, you're correct that the `omp single` directive means that the block of code it surrounds will be executed by only one thread. However, this doesn't mean that the tasks created inside this block will also be executed by only one thread.

The `omp task` directive creates a task that can be executed in parallel with the rest of the code. This task is not immediately executed when it's created. Instead, it's put into a pool of tasks that can be executed by any thread in the team. 

In your example, one thread (due to `omp single`) is creating tasks by iterating over the linked list. Each task corresponds to processing one node of the list. These tasks are put into the pool and can be picked up and executed by any thread in the team, including the one that created the tasks. This is how parallelism is achieved in this example.

So, the `omp single` is used to ensure that tasks are created by only one thread (avoiding potential race conditions in task creation), and `omp task` is used to create tasks that can be executed in parallel.

--------
