
# Post \#72197242 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72197242/)

## What is wrong with my application of SFINAE when trying to implement a type trait?

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 1270 (639/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-525

Created at 2022-05-11 07:45:19

Tags: `c++` `c++17` `sfinae` `typetraits`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I needed a type trait that decays enums to their underlying type, and works the same as `decay_t` for all other types. I've written the following code, and apparently this is not how SFINAE works. But it is how I thought it should work, so what exactly is the problem with this code and what's the gap in my understanding of C++?
```
namespace detail {
    template <typename T, std::enable_if_t<!std::is_enum_v<T>>* = nullptr>
    struct BaseType {
        using Type = std::decay_t<T>;
    };

    template <typename T, std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>* = nullptr>
    struct BaseType {
        using Type = std::underlying_type_t<T>;
    };
}

template <class T>
using base_type_t = typename detail::BaseType<T>::Type;
```

The error in MSVC is completely unintelligible:
> 'detail::BaseType': template parameter '__formal' is incompatible with
the declaration
In GCC it's a bit better - says that declarations of the second template parameter are incompatible between the two `BaseType` templates. But according to my understanding of SFINAE, only one should be visible at all for any given T and the other one should be malformed thanks to `enable_if`.
[Godbolt link](https://godbolt.org/z/49v3xd7Mr)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The problem with your code is that you have two template specializations for the same primary template `BaseType`, which is not allowed in C++. When you use `detail::BaseType<T>` in your code, the compiler cannot determine which specialization to use for `T` because both specializations are equally valid. This is what causes the error message you see.

To fix this, you can use a single template specialization with a `static_assert` to check whether `T` is an enum or not. Here's an updated version of your code:

```
namespace detail {
    template <typename T>
    struct BaseType {
        static_assert(!std::is_enum_v<T>, "T must not be an enum");
        using Type = std::decay_t<T>;
    };

    template <typename T>
    struct BaseType<T, std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>>
    {
        using Type = std::underlying_type_t<T>;
    };
}

template <class T>
using base_type_t = typename detail::BaseType<T>::Type;
```

In this version, the primary template handles all types, and the `static_assert` ensures that it only gets used for non-enums. The second specialization only gets used for enums, thanks to the `std::enable_if_t` condition.

This should work as expected and give you the behavior you want.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The problem with your code is that you have two template specializations for the same primary template `BaseType`, which is not allowed in C++. When you use `detail::BaseType<T>` in your code, the compiler doesn't know which specialization to choose for an enum type `T`, because both specializations match the template argument `T`. This is what causes the error message you see.

To fix this, you can use a single template specialization with a conditional type trait that checks whether `T` is an enum type or not. Here's an updated version of your code that works:
```
namespace detail {
    template <typename T>
    struct BaseType {
        using Type = std::conditional_t<std::is_enum_v<T>, std::underlying_type_t<T>, std::decay_t<T>>;
    };
}

template <class T>
using base_type_t = typename detail::BaseType<T>::Type;
```
This code uses `std::conditional_t` to choose between `std::underlying_type_t<T>` and `std::decay_t<T>` based on whether `T` is an enum type or not. This way, there's only one template specialization for `BaseType`, and the code should compile without errors.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The problem with your code is that you have two template specializations for the same primary template `BaseType`, which is not allowed in C++. When you define a template specialization, you are supposed to provide a unique set of template parameters that distinguish it from the primary template and any other specializations. In your case, both specializations have the same template parameter list, which is not allowed.

To achieve what you want, you can use a different approach. You can define a primary template that handles all types, and then use `std::enable_if` to conditionally enable the underlying type for enums. Here's an example:

```
template <typename T, typename = void>
struct BaseType {
    using Type = std::decay_t<T>;
};

template <typename T>
struct BaseType<T, std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>> {
    using Type = std::underlying_type_t<T>;
};

template <class T>
using base_type_t = typename BaseType<T>::Type;
```

In this code, the primary template handles all types, and the second template specialization is only enabled for enums. The `std::enable_if_t` conditionally enables the second specialization only if the type `T` is an enum. This way, you have a unique set of template parameters for each specialization, and the code should compile without errors.

I hope this helps!

--------
