
# Post \#60334299 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60334299/)

## clang format: disable ordering includes

**Vote**: 19 (269/702) **Views**: 14281 (367/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-528

Created at 2020-02-21 07:55:35

Tags: `c++` `include` `clang-format`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

In our C++ project, the order of our includes is regularly changed. This is a problem since we are using some third-party libraries which require a specific include order to avoid problems. 

I know, this is bad but we have to deal with it. 

Unfortunately, the order of our includes is regularly changed and I suppose that this is due to `clang-format`. I found a [page](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormatStyleOptions.html) where you can specify a variable `includeCategories`. 
However, I do not fully understand how it works. 
I simply want to completely disable the ordering of includes. 
How can I do this? 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can disable the ordering of includes in `clang-format` by setting the `SortIncludes` option to `false`. 

To do this, create a `.clang-format` file in the root directory of your project (if you don't already have one) and add the following line to it:

```
SortIncludes: false
```

This will disable the sorting of includes in `clang-format`. 

Note that this will also disable any grouping of includes that you may have specified using the `includeCategories` option. If you want to keep the grouping but disable the sorting, you can set the `SortIncludes` option to `false` and specify your include categories as follows:

```
SortIncludes: false
IncludeCategories:
  - Regex: '^<.*\.h>'
    Priority: 1
  - Regex: '^<.*\.hpp>'
    Priority: 2
  - Regex: '^<.*>'
    Priority: 3
  - Regex: '^".*"'
    Priority: 4
```

This will group system includes (`<...>`) before local includes (`"..."`), but will not sort them within each group.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To completely disable the ordering of includes in `clang-format`, you can set the `SortIncludes` option to `false`. This will prevent `clang-format` from reordering your includes.

You can add this option to your `.clang-format` file by adding the following line:

```
SortIncludes: false
```

If you don't have a `.clang-format` file yet, you can create one in the root directory of your project and add this line to it. 

Note that disabling the sorting of includes can lead to potential issues with third-party libraries that require a specific include order. It's recommended to follow the recommended include order whenever possible.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can disable the ordering of includes in `clang-format` by setting the `SortIncludes` option to `false`. This will prevent `clang-format` from reordering your includes.

To do this, you can create a `.clang-format` file in the root directory of your project (if you don't already have one) and add the following line to it:

```
SortIncludes: false
```

This will disable the sorting of includes for all files in your project. If you want to enable sorting for specific files, you can override this setting by adding a `// clang-format off` comment at the beginning of the file and a `// clang-format on` comment at the end of the file.

Note that disabling the sorting of includes may cause issues with some third-party libraries that require a specific include order. It's generally recommended to follow the recommended include order for each library to avoid potential issues.

--------
