
# Post \#72197242 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72197242/)

## What is wrong with my application of SFINAE when trying to implement a type trait?

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 1270 (639/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-525

Created at 2022-05-11 07:45:19

Tags: `c++` `c++17` `sfinae` `typetraits`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I needed a type trait that decays enums to their underlying type, and works the same as `decay_t` for all other types. I've written the following code, and apparently this is not how SFINAE works. But it is how I thought it should work, so what exactly is the problem with this code and what's the gap in my understanding of C++?
```
namespace detail {
    template <typename T, std::enable_if_t<!std::is_enum_v<T>>* = nullptr>
    struct BaseType {
        using Type = std::decay_t<T>;
    };

    template <typename T, std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>* = nullptr>
    struct BaseType {
        using Type = std::underlying_type_t<T>;
    };
}

template <class T>
using base_type_t = typename detail::BaseType<T>::Type;
```

The error in MSVC is completely unintelligible:
> 'detail::BaseType': template parameter '__formal' is incompatible with
the declaration
In GCC it's a bit better - says that declarations of the second template parameter are incompatible between the two `BaseType` templates. But according to my understanding of SFINAE, only one should be visible at all for any given T and the other one should be malformed thanks to `enable_if`.
[Godbolt link](https://godbolt.org/z/49v3xd7Mr)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The problem with your code is that SFINAE only works when the substitution failure happens in the immediate context of template argument deduction. In your code, the substitution failure is not in the immediate context because it's in the default value of a non-deduced template parameter.

To fix this, you can use `std::enable_if_t` as part of the type itself, which will be in the immediate context of template argument deduction. Here's how you can do it:

```cpp
namespace detail {
    template <typename T, typename = void>
    struct BaseType {
        using Type = std::decay_t<T>;
    };

    template <typename T>
    struct BaseType<T, std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>> {
        using Type = std::underlying_type_t<T>;
    };
}

template <class T>
using base_type_t = typename detail::BaseType<T>::Type;
```

In this code, `BaseType` is a template with two parameters: `T` and an unnamed parameter of type `void`. The second parameter has a default value of `void`, so you can still use `BaseType<T>` without providing a second argument.

The second definition of `BaseType` only applies when `T` is an enum. If `T` is not an enum, `std::is_enum_v<T>` is `false`, `std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>` is invalid, and this definition of `BaseType` is removed from the set of candidates due to SFINAE. If `T` is an enum, `std::is_enum_v<T>` is `true`, `std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>` is `void`, and this definition of `BaseType` is a better match than the first one because it doesn't rely on the default argument.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue here is that SFINAE (Substitution Failure Is Not An Error) only applies when the compiler is trying to instantiate a template. In your case, you're defining two different templates with the same name, which is not allowed in C++. The compiler doesn't get to the point of trying to instantiate the template, because it can't even compile the code due to the duplicate definitions.

To make SFINAE work, you need to put the `enable_if` in a place where it's part of the template instantiation process. A common way to do this is to put it in the template parameters of a function, or as a default template argument.

Here's a corrected version of your code:

```cpp
namespace detail {
    template <typename T, typename Enable = void>
    struct BaseType {
        using Type = std::decay_t<T>;
    };

    template <typename T>
    struct BaseType<T, std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>> {
        using Type = std::underlying_type_t<T>;
    };
}

template <class T>
using base_type_t = typename detail::BaseType<T>::Type;
```

In this version, the `enable_if` is part of the template parameters of the `BaseType` struct, so SFINAE applies. The first `BaseType` template is the default, and will be used if the `enable_if` in the second template fails. If the `enable_if` succeeds, the second template is a better match, so it will be used instead.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The problem with your code is that SFINAE only works when the substitution failure happens in the immediate context of the template instantiation. In your case, the substitution failure is not in the immediate context because it's in the base template, not in the template argument list.

Here's how you can fix it:

```cpp
namespace detail {
    template <typename T, typename = void>
    struct BaseType {
        using Type = std::decay_t<T>;
    };

    template <typename T>
    struct BaseType<T, std::enable_if_t<std::is_enum_v<T>>> {
        using Type = std::underlying_type_t<T>;
    };
}

template <class T>
using base_type_t = typename detail::BaseType<T>::Type;
```

In this version, the `std::enable_if_t` is part of the template argument list, so if `std::is_enum_v<T>` is `false`, the substitution failure happens in the immediate context, and SFINAE kicks in to remove the second specialization from consideration. If `std::is_enum_v<T>` is `true`, the second specialization is a better match, so it's chosen over the first one.

--------
