
# Post \#68444429 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68444429/)

## How can I distinguish between high- and low-performance cores/threads in C++?

**Vote**: 71 (93/702) **Views**: 8071 (464/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-522

Created at 2021-07-19 17:06:31

Tags: `c++` `multithreading` `performance` `intel` `apple-m1`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When talking about multi-threading, it often seems like threads are treated as equal - just the same as the main thread, but running next to it.
On some new processors, however, such as the [Apple "M" series](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_silicon#M_series) and the upcoming Intel [Alder Lake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alder_Lake_(microprocessor)) series not all threads are equally as performant as these chips feature separate high-performance cores and high-efficiency, slower cores.
It’s not to say that there weren’t already things such as hyper-threading, but this seems to have a much larger performance implication.
Is there a way to query `std::thread`‘s properties and enforce on which cores they’ll run in C++?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In C++, the standard library does not provide any direct way to set the affinity of a thread (i.e., binding a thread to a specific CPU core). This is because C++ is designed to be a platform-independent language, and thread affinity is a concept that is very platform-specific. 

However, many systems provide their own platform-specific ways to set thread affinity. For example, on Linux systems, you can use the `pthread_setaffinity_np` function to set the affinity of a thread. On Windows systems, you can use the `SetThreadAffinityMask` function.

Here is an example of how you might set thread affinity on a Linux system:

```cpp
#include <pthread.h>
#include <stdio.h>

void* print_hello(void* data) {
    printf("Hello from new thread %u - I was set on CPU %d\n", pthread_self(), sched_getcpu());
    pthread_exit(NULL);
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[]) {
    pthread_t thread;
    cpu_set_t cpuset;

    CPU_ZERO(&cpuset);
    CPU_SET(2, &cpuset); // Set the thread to run on CPU 2

    pthread_create(&thread, NULL, print_hello, NULL);
    pthread_setaffinity_np(thread, sizeof(cpu_set_t), &cpuset);

    pthread_join(thread, NULL);
    return 0;
}
```

Remember that setting thread affinity can have complex effects on your program's performance, because it interferes with the operating system's ability to schedule threads efficiently. It's generally best to let the operating system handle thread scheduling, unless you have a specific reason to do otherwise.

As for querying a thread's properties, the standard C++ library does not provide much functionality in this area. You can get a thread's ID, and you can check whether a thread is joinable, but that's about it. For more detailed information about a thread, you would need to use platform-specific functions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In C++, the standard library does not provide a direct way to set the affinity of a thread (i.e., binding a thread to a specific CPU core). This is because C++ aims to provide a platform-independent interface, and thread affinity is a concept that doesn't make sense on all platforms.

However, on platforms where it does make sense, you can use platform-specific APIs to set the thread affinity. For example, on Linux, you can use the `pthread_setaffinity_np` function, and on Windows, you can use the `SetThreadAffinityMask` function.

Here is an example of how you can set the affinity of a thread to a specific CPU core on Linux:

```cpp
#include <pthread.h>
#include <iostream>

void set_affinity(std::thread& t, int core_id) {
    cpu_set_t cpuset;
    CPU_ZERO(&cpuset);
    CPU_SET(core_id, &cpuset);

    int rc = pthread_setaffinity_np(t.native_handle(), sizeof(cpu_set_t), &cpuset);
    if (rc != 0) {
        std::cerr << "Error calling pthread_setaffinity_np: " << rc << "\n";
    }
}

int main() {
    std::thread t([] {
        // Do some work...
    });

    set_affinity(t, 2);  // Bind the thread to core 2

    t.join();

    return 0;
}
```

Please note that setting the thread affinity can have complex effects on the performance of your program, and it's generally recommended to let the operating system's scheduler handle the placement of threads on cores unless you have a specific reason to do otherwise.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In C++, the standard library does not provide a direct way to set the affinity of a thread to a specific core or to query a thread's properties in such a detailed manner. This is because C++ aims to provide a high level of portability across different platforms and operating systems, and such features are highly platform-specific.

However, many operating systems provide their own APIs that allow you to control thread affinity. For example, on a Unix-like system such as Linux, you can use the `pthread_setaffinity_np` function to set the CPU affinity of a thread. On Windows, you can use the `SetThreadAffinityMask` function.

Here is an example of how you might set the CPU affinity of a thread on Linux:

```cpp
#include <pthread.h>
#include <stdio.h>

void* run(void* data) {
    // Do work here...
    return NULL;
}

int main() {
    pthread_t thread;
    cpu_set_t cpuset;

    pthread_create(&thread, NULL, run, NULL);

    CPU_ZERO(&cpuset);
    CPU_SET(0, &cpuset);  // Set the thread to run on CPU 0

    int result = pthread_setaffinity_np(thread, sizeof(cpu_set_t), &cpuset);
    if (result != 0) {
        perror("pthread_setaffinity_np");
    }

    pthread_join(thread, NULL);

    return 0;
}
```

Remember that setting thread affinity can have complex effects on performance and is generally best left to the operating system's scheduler unless you have a specific reason to control it.

As for the new processors like Apple's M series and Intel's Alder Lake, it's up to the operating system's scheduler to decide how to distribute threads across the different types of cores. It's not clear yet how much control developers will have over this process, and it may vary between different operating systems.

--------
