
# Post \#74601619 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74601619/)

## Order of evaluation in v != std::exchange(v, predecessor(v))

**Vote**: 37 (163/702) **Views**: 2155 (598/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-523

Created at 2022-11-28 13:52:06

Tags: `c++` `language-lawyer` `sequence-points`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I keep finding more idioms that lend themselves to `std::exchange`.
Today I found myself [writing this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/74600853/85371) in an answer:
```
do {
    path.push_front(v);
} while (v != std::exchange(v, pmap[v]));
```

I like it a lot more than, say
```
do {
    path.push_front(v);
    if (v == pmap[v])
        break;
    v= pmap[v];
} while (true);
```

Hopefully for obvious reasons.
However, I'm not big on standardese and I can't help but worry that `lhs != rhs` doesn't guarantee that the right-hand side expression isn't fully evaluated before the left-hand-side. That would make it a tautologous comparison - which would by definition return `true`.
The code, however, does run correctly, apparently evaluating `lhs` first.
Does anyone know
- - 

---


PS. I realize that this is a special case of `f(a,b)` where `f` is `operator!=`. I've tried to answer my own query using the information found here but have failed to reach a conclusion to date:
- [https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/eval_order](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/eval_order)- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_point)- [Order of evaluation in C++ function parameters](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2934904/order-of-evaluation-in-c-function-parameters)- [What are the evaluation order guarantees introduced by C++17?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38501587/what-are-the-evaluation-order-guarantees-introduced-by-c17)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You are correct to be concerned about the order of evaluation in this case. According to the C++ standard, the order of evaluation of function arguments is unspecified. This means that the compiler is free to evaluate the arguments in any order it chooses, which could result in the right-hand side expression being evaluated before the left-hand side expression in the comparison.

However, in practice, most compilers evaluate function arguments from left to right. This means that in your example, the left-hand side expression (`lhs`) will be evaluated before the right-hand side expression (`rhs`), which is what you want.

To be on the safe side, you could use a temporary variable to hold the result of `std::exchange` and compare that to `v` instead:

```
do {
    path.push_front(v);
} while (v != (temp = std::exchange(v, pmap[v]), temp));
```

This ensures that `std::exchange` is evaluated before the comparison, regardless of the order of evaluation of function arguments.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The order of evaluation of function arguments in C++ is unspecified, which means that the compiler is free to evaluate them in any order it chooses. However, the order of evaluation of the operands of the `!=` operator is well-defined, and the left-hand operand is always evaluated before the right-hand operand.

In your code, `lhs` is `v` and `rhs` is `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])`. According to the rules of the `!=` operator, `v` is evaluated first, and then `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` is evaluated. This means that the value of `v` is read before it is modified by `std::exchange`.

Therefore, your code is correct and safe to use. The `!=` operator guarantees that the left-hand operand is evaluated before the right-hand operand, so there is no risk of the right-hand operand being evaluated before the left-hand operand.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The order of evaluation of function arguments in C++ is unspecified, which means that the compiler is free to evaluate them in any order it chooses. However, the order of evaluation of the operands of `operator!=` is well-defined: the left-hand operand is evaluated first, followed by the right-hand operand.

Therefore, in the expression `lhs != std::exchange(lhs, rhs)`, the left-hand operand `lhs` is guaranteed to be evaluated before the right-hand operand `std::exchange(lhs, rhs)`. This means that the value of `lhs` is read before it is replaced by `rhs` in the call to `std::exchange`.

So, the code you posted is correct and safe to use. The use of `std::exchange` in this case is a good example of how it can simplify code and make it more readable.

--------
