
# Post \#63121776 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63121776/)

## Simplest syntax for string interpolation in c++

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 6317 (497/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-517

Created at 2020-07-27 18:56:37

Tags: `c++` `string` `string-interpolation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm used to easy-to-read syntax for string interpolation like this in c# or JavaScript, so when I started learning c++ I expected that it will have a similar feature, but when googling for string interpolation in c++ I couldn't find anything like that.
In c# strings are interpolated like this:
```
$"My variable has value {myVariable}"
```

In JavaScript it looks like this:
```
`My variable has value ${myVariable}`
```

Inserting multiple values in different places in a string literal is such a common problem I'm sure there is some standard way of doing this in c++. I want to know what is the simplest way of doing this in c++ and how do people usually do it.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In C++, string interpolation is not as straightforward as in languages like C# or JavaScript. There's no built-in syntax for it. However, there are several ways to achieve similar results.

1. **Using `std::stringstream`**: This is a part of the standard library and allows you to concatenate different types of variables easily.

```cpp
#include <sstream>

int myVariable = 5;
std::stringstream ss;
ss << "My variable has value " << myVariable;
std::string result = ss.str();
```

2. **Using `std::to_string`**: This function can convert numeric types to a string, which can then be concatenated.

```cpp
int myVariable = 5;
std::string result = "My variable has value " + std::to_string(myVariable);
```

3. **Using `printf` or `sprintf`**: These are C-style functions but are still used in C++ for formatted output.

```cpp
int myVariable = 5;
char result[50];
sprintf(result, "My variable has value %d", myVariable);
```

4. **Using `fmt` library**: This is a modern, type-safe, and efficient formatting library for C++. It's not part of the standard library, but it's included in many modern C++ projects and will be part of C++20 standard.

```cpp
#include <fmt/core.h>

int myVariable = 5;
std::string result = fmt::format("My variable has value {}", myVariable);
```

Please note that the `fmt` library needs to be installed separately or it might be included in your project if you're using a recent version of C++.

In general, the choice between these methods depends on your specific needs and constraints. If you're writing modern C++ code and have access to the `fmt` library, that's probably the best choice. If you're working with older code or have constraints on what libraries you can use, `std::stringstream` or `std::to_string` might be more appropriate.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In C++, string interpolation isn't as straightforward as in C# or JavaScript. However, there are several ways to format strings in C++. Here are a few common methods:

1. **Using `printf` or `sprintf` from C standard library**: This is an old way of doing it, but it's still used in some cases. Here's an example:

```cpp
int myVariable = 5;
printf("My variable has value %d", myVariable);
```

2. **Using `std::stringstream`**: This is a more C++ way of doing it. Here's an example:

```cpp
#include <sstream>

int myVariable = 5;
std::stringstream ss;
ss << "My variable has value " << myVariable;
std::string result = ss.str();
```

3. **Using `std::to_string`**: This is a simple way to convert a number to a string. Here's an example:

```cpp
int myVariable = 5;
std::string result = "My variable has value " + std::to_string(myVariable);
```

4. **Using `std::format` in C++20**: This is a new feature in C++20 that makes string formatting much easier. Here's an example:

```cpp
#include <format>

int myVariable = 5;
std::string result = std::format("My variable has value {}", myVariable);
```

Please note that `std::format` is not yet widely supported by all compilers as of the time of writing.

So, while C++ doesn't have the same kind of string interpolation as C# or JavaScript, there are still several ways to format strings. The best method to use depends on your specific needs and the features supported by your compiler.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In C++, string interpolation as you've described it in C# or JavaScript is not directly supported. However, there are several ways to format strings in C++.

1. **Using `std::stringstream` or `std::ostringstream`:**

```cpp
#include <sstream>

int myVariable = 123;
std::ostringstream ss;
ss << "My variable has value " << myVariable;
std::string s = ss.str();
```

2. **Using `std::to_string`:**

```cpp
int myVariable = 123;
std::string s = "My variable has value " + std::to_string(myVariable);
```

3. **Using `printf` or `sprintf` (C style):**

```cpp
int myVariable = 123;
char s[50];
sprintf(s, "My variable has value %d", myVariable);
```

4. **Using `boost::format` (if you are using Boost library):**

```cpp
#include <boost/format.hpp>

int myVariable = 123;
std::string s = (boost::format("My variable has value %1%") % myVariable).str();
```

5. **Using `fmt` library (modern and type-safe formatting library):**

```cpp
#include <fmt/core.h>

int myVariable = 123;
std::string s = fmt::format("My variable has value {}", myVariable);
```

The `fmt` library is part of the {fmt} project and its format API is included in C++20 as `std::format`. So, in C++20 you can do:

```cpp
#include <format>

int myVariable = 123;
std::string s = std::format("My variable has value {}", myVariable);
```

Please note that `std::format` is not yet widely supported in all compilers as of the time of writing this.

--------
