
# Post \#74601619 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74601619/)

## Order of evaluation in v != std::exchange(v, predecessor(v))

**Vote**: 37 (163/702) **Views**: 2155 (598/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-523

Created at 2022-11-28 13:52:06

Tags: `c++` `language-lawyer` `sequence-points`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I keep finding more idioms that lend themselves to `std::exchange`.
Today I found myself [writing this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/74600853/85371) in an answer:
```
do {
    path.push_front(v);
} while (v != std::exchange(v, pmap[v]));
```

I like it a lot more than, say
```
do {
    path.push_front(v);
    if (v == pmap[v])
        break;
    v= pmap[v];
} while (true);
```

Hopefully for obvious reasons.
However, I'm not big on standardese and I can't help but worry that `lhs != rhs` doesn't guarantee that the right-hand side expression isn't fully evaluated before the left-hand-side. That would make it a tautologous comparison - which would by definition return `true`.
The code, however, does run correctly, apparently evaluating `lhs` first.
Does anyone know
- - 

---


PS. I realize that this is a special case of `f(a,b)` where `f` is `operator!=`. I've tried to answer my own query using the information found here but have failed to reach a conclusion to date:
- [https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/eval_order](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/eval_order)- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_point)- [Order of evaluation in C++ function parameters](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2934904/order-of-evaluation-in-c-function-parameters)- [What are the evaluation order guarantees introduced by C++17?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38501587/what-are-the-evaluation-order-guarantees-introduced-by-c17)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In C++17, the order of evaluation of expressions is well-defined. The standard specifies that the operands of an operator are evaluated before the operator itself. This means that in the expression `lhs != rhs`, both `lhs` and `rhs` are evaluated before the `!=` operator.

In your specific case, `v != std::exchange(v, pmap[v])`, `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` is evaluated first, which changes the value of `v`, and then the `!=` operator is applied.

The `std::exchange` function is equivalent to:
```
T exchange(T& obj, T new_value)
{
    T old_value = std::move(obj);
    obj = std::move(new_value);
    return old_value;
}
```
So, `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` sets `v` to `pmap[v]` and returns the old value of `v`. This old value is then compared with the new value of `v` in the `!=` operation.

Therefore, your loop will continue as long as the old value of `v` is not equal to `pmap[v]`, and `v` will be updated to `pmap[v]` in each iteration. This is guaranteed by the C++17 standard, so you can use this idiom without worrying about undefined behavior.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `std::exchange` function is defined as follows:

```cpp
template< class T, class U = T >
T exchange( T& obj, U&& new_val )
{
    T old_val = std::move(obj);
    obj = std::forward<U>(new_val);
    return old_val;
}
```

This function provides a guarantee that the old value of `obj` is returned before the new value is assigned. This is because the old value is stored in `old_val` before the assignment takes place.

In your case, `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` will first store the current value of `v` and then assign `pmap[v]` to `v`. The stored value is then returned. This means that `v != std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` will compare the old value of `v` with the new value, not the new value with itself.

As for the evaluation order, since C++17, the order of evaluation of the operands of almost all C++ operators, including `!=`, is sequenced from left to right. This means that the left-hand side operand `v` is evaluated (i.e., its value is read) before the right-hand side operand `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])`.

So, in conclusion, your code is correct and there is no risk of a tautologous comparison.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In C++17, the order of evaluation of the operands in a binary expression like `lhs != rhs` is not specified, meaning that either `lhs` or `rhs` could be evaluated first. However, the standard does specify that the evaluation of operands is sequenced before the operation itself. This means that both `lhs` and `rhs` will be fully evaluated before the comparison is made.

In your specific case, `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` is an expression that has a side effect: it modifies `v`. According to the standard, the side effect is sequenced before the value computation of the assignment expression, which means that `v` is updated before its value is returned by `std::exchange`.

Therefore, even though the order of evaluation of `v` and `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` is not specified, the fact that `std::exchange` updates `v` before returning its value guarantees that the comparison `v != std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` will not be tautological.

In other words, the code `v != std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` is guaranteed to first update `v` to `pmap[v]` and then compare the old value of `v` with the new value. This is why your code works as expected.

--------
