
# Post \#74601619 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74601619/)

## Order of evaluation in v != std::exchange(v, predecessor(v))

**Vote**: 37 (163/702) **Views**: 2155 (598/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-523

Created at 2022-11-28 13:52:06

Tags: `c++` `language-lawyer` `sequence-points`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I keep finding more idioms that lend themselves to `std::exchange`.
Today I found myself [writing this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/74600853/85371) in an answer:
```
do {
    path.push_front(v);
} while (v != std::exchange(v, pmap[v]));
```

I like it a lot more than, say
```
do {
    path.push_front(v);
    if (v == pmap[v])
        break;
    v= pmap[v];
} while (true);
```

Hopefully for obvious reasons.
However, I'm not big on standardese and I can't help but worry that `lhs != rhs` doesn't guarantee that the right-hand side expression isn't fully evaluated before the left-hand-side. That would make it a tautologous comparison - which would by definition return `true`.
The code, however, does run correctly, apparently evaluating `lhs` first.
Does anyone know
- - 

---


PS. I realize that this is a special case of `f(a,b)` where `f` is `operator!=`. I've tried to answer my own query using the information found here but have failed to reach a conclusion to date:
- [https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/eval_order](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/eval_order)- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_point)- [Order of evaluation in C++ function parameters](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2934904/order-of-evaluation-in-c-function-parameters)- [What are the evaluation order guarantees introduced by C++17?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38501587/what-are-the-evaluation-order-guarantees-introduced-by-c17)


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 20

Created at 2022-11-28 14:10:42

------------

C++17 introduced rules on [sequences](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/eval_order). What was UB before is now well defined. This applies to arguments to function calls as well as a select assortment of operators:
> sequenced before is an asymmetric, transitive, pair-wise relationship
between evaluations within the same thread.- 
The built-in `!=` however is  sequenced (see link above). A function call would be sequenced but the order of evaluation is not guaranteed:
> 
1. In a function call, value computations and side effects of the initialization of every parameter are indeterminately sequenced with respect to value computations and side effects of any other parameter.


(emphasis added)
To my reading, even if you wrote a wrapper function, your compiler would not be required to evaluate `v` first, then `std::exchange(v, pmap[v])` and finally `equal(..)`. And reversing the evaluation order, I believe, would change semantics in your example.
So sadly, as nice as `std::exchange` is, in this case, it is not guaranteed to do what you need it to.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 16

Created at 2022-11-28 16:35:18

------------

If `!=` calls an overloaded comparison operator that takes the left argument (`v`) by reference, the order of evaluation here does not really matter: binding a reference (directly) does not access the object denoted by the initializer. The actual comparison (in the body of the operator function) takes place after both operands are evaluated ([[intro.execution]/11](https://timsong-cpp.github.io/cppwp/n4868/intro.execution#11.sentence-1)):
> When calling a function [...], every value computation and side effect associated with any argument expression [...] is sequenced before execution of every expression or statement in the body of the called function.
In other words, the comparison is guaranteed behave as you expect here.

---


This does not hold if evaluating the left side involves reading the value of `v`, as in the case of the built-in `!=` operator, or an overload taking it by value (or requiring a conversion to bind a reference).
In that case, it becomes significant that the two operands are unsequenced ([[intro.execution]/10](https://timsong-cpp.github.io/cppwp/n4868/intro.execution#10)):
> Except where noted, evaluations of operands of individual operators and of subexpressions of individual expressions are unsequenced.
(The `!=` operator [does not](https://timsong-cpp.github.io/cppwp/n4868/expr.eq) have any special sequencing properties.)
There is potential for UB here:
> If a side effect on a memory location is unsequenced relative to either another side effect on the same memory location or a value computation using the value of any object in the same memory location, and they are not potentially concurrent, the behavior is undefined.
However, [[intro.execution]/11](https://timsong-cpp.github.io/cppwp/n4868/intro.execution#11.sentence-2) applies:
> For each function invocation or evaluation of an await-expression , each evaluation that does not occur within  but is evaluated on the same thread and as part of the same signal handler (if any) is either sequenced before all evaluations that occur within  or sequenced after all evaluations that occur within .
Summarized by a [footnote](https://timsong-cpp.github.io/cppwp/n4868/intro.execution#footnote-49):
> In other words, function executions do not interleave with each other.
Which means the read of `v` on the left and its modification on the right (which occurs within `std::exchange`) can't conflict, and are effectively indeterminately sequenced: there's no UB, but no guarantee of consistent results either.

---


C++17 made some changes to the rules of evaluation order, but none are relevant here: this answer holds pre-C++17 as well.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 2

Created at 2022-11-28 23:49:25

------------

Regardless of whether or not this works, it is almost completely unreadable code -- and remember that we write code mostly for humans, not compilers!
As a general rule, using conditionals that have side effects are often hard to read and understand because our brains are not equipped to do two things at once: Understand whether the condition is true or false, and  keep track of what changes. Do one thing at a time if you want others to easily understand what is happening. In your case, you are adding a third dimension to it:  something changes; using conditionals in which you have a function call that changes something, and comparing the changed result against something else is just impossible to read :-)
If you absolutely must use this idiom, separate the three parts:
```
do {
    path.push_front(v);
} while ([&v,&pmap]() mutable
         {
           auto old_v = v;  
           v = pmap[v];
           return v != old_v;
         } ());
```

This code is equivalent, of course, but I think it is far easier to read. Although I will claim that it is still harder to read than your alternative code without using `std::exchange()` :-)


------------
    
    