
# Post \#59564671 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59564671/)

## C++ an VS error: <experimental/filesystem> header providing std::experimental::filesystem is deprecated by Microsoft and will be REMOVED

**Vote**: 5 (499/702) **Views**: 16180 (340/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-519

Created at 2020-01-02 14:03:45

Tags: `c++` `visual-studio` `visual-c++`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I coded in  on  (Windows 10) and got this error:
```
#error The <experimental/filesystem> header providing std::experimental::filesystem is deprecated by Microsoft \
and will be REMOVED. It is superseded by the C++17 <filesystem> header providing std::filesystem. \
You can define _SILENCE_EXPERIMENTAL_FILESYSTEM_DEPRECATION_WARNING to acknowledge that you have received this warning.
```

With this headers:
```
#include <iostream>
#include <fstream>
#include <string>
#include <windows.h>
#include <filesystem>//If I will disable it nothing happens.

#include <experimental/filesystem> //If I will disable it happens another error.
namespace fs = std::experimental::filesystem; 

using namespace std;
```

I've tried: `#define _SILENCE_EXPERIMENTAL_FILESYSTEM_DEPRECATION_WARNING` in the main cpp file. It didnt help.
So then I paste this code from [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53365538/how-to-determine-whether-to-use-filesystem-or-experimental-filesystem):
```
#ifdef __cpp_lib_filesystem
    #include <filesystem>
    using fs = std::filesystem;
#elif __cpp_lib_experimental_filesystem
    #include <experimental/filesystem>
    using fs = std::experimental::filesystem;
#else
    #error "no filesystem support ='("
#endif
```

Didn't helped too.
What is the easiest way to get out that error?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message is informing you that the `<experimental/filesystem>` header is deprecated and will be removed in the future. Instead, you should use the `<filesystem>` header, which provides the same functionality but is part of the C++17 standard.

To fix the error, you need to replace the line `#include <experimental/filesystem>` with `#include <filesystem>`. Then, you need to replace the line `namespace fs = std::experimental::filesystem;` with `namespace fs = std::filesystem;`.

If you still get the error after making these changes, you can define `_SILENCE_EXPERIMENTAL_FILESYSTEM_DEPRECATION_WARNING` before including any headers in your code. You can do this by adding `#define _SILENCE_EXPERIMENTAL_FILESYSTEM_DEPRECATION_WARNING` at the top of your main cpp file, before any other headers are included.

If none of these solutions work, you may need to update your compiler to a version that supports the `<filesystem>` header.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message is indicating that the `<experimental/filesystem>` header is deprecated and will be removed in the future. Instead, you should use the `<filesystem>` header which provides the same functionality but is part of the C++17 standard.

To fix the error, you should replace the line `#include <experimental/filesystem>` with `#include <filesystem>`. Then, replace the line `namespace fs = std::experimental::filesystem;` with `namespace fs = std::filesystem;`.

If you still get the error after making these changes, you can define `_SILENCE_EXPERIMENTAL_FILESYSTEM_DEPRECATION_WARNING` before including any headers in your code. Make sure to define it before including any headers, otherwise it won't have any effect.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message is telling you that the `<experimental/filesystem>` header is deprecated and will be removed in the future. Instead, you should use the `<filesystem>` header, which provides the same functionality but is part of the C++17 standard.

To fix the error, you should replace the line `#include <experimental/filesystem>` with `#include <filesystem>`. Then, replace the line `namespace fs = std::experimental::filesystem;` with `namespace fs = std::filesystem;`.

If you still get the same error after making these changes, you can define `_SILENCE_EXPERIMENTAL_FILESYSTEM_DEPRECATION_WARNING` before including any headers in your code. You can do this by adding `#define _SILENCE_EXPERIMENTAL_FILESYSTEM_DEPRECATION_WARNING` at the top of your main cpp file, before any other headers are included.

--------
