
# Post \#73699502 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73699502/)

## unique_lock same mutex in different thread

**Vote**: -1 (699/702) **Views**: 550 (694/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-527

Created at 2022-09-13 08:04:54

Tags: `c++` `multithreading` `c++11`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

i am looking at this piece of code:
```
#include <chrono>
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <mutex>
#include <shared_mutex>
#include <string>
#include <thread>

bool flag;
std::mutex m;

void wait_for_flag() {
  // std::cout << &m << std::endl;
  // return;
  std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(m);
  while (!flag) {
    lk.unlock();
    std::cout << "unlocked....." << std::endl;
    std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::milliseconds(100));
    std::cout << "sleeping....." << std::endl;
    lk.lock();
    std::cout << "locked by " << std::this_thread::get_id() << "....."
              << std::endl;
  }
}

int main(int argc, char const *argv[]) {
  std::thread t(wait_for_flag);
  std::thread t2(wait_for_flag);
  std::thread t3(wait_for_flag);
  std::thread t4(wait_for_flag);
  std::thread t5(wait_for_flag);

  t.join();
  t2.join();
  t3.join();
  t4.join();
  t5.join();

  return 0;
}
```

I am new to this, and I thought mutex can only be acquired by one thread. I got two questions:

1. why there is no deadlock among those threads, e.g. if thread A runs lk.unlock(), then thread B runs lk.lock() and then thread A runs lk.lock().
2. what does it mean we define a new unique_lock in every thread associating to the same mutex lock (which is called m in here)


Thanks


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 3

Created at 2022-09-13 08:11:48

------------


1. 


Because right after acquiring a lock on the mutex each thread calls `lk.unlock();` and now other thread can acquire a lock on the mutex. Only if a thread tries to lock an already locked mutex (by a different thread) it has to wait for the mutex to be free. As any thread in your code eventually calls `lk.unlock();` there is always a chance for a different thread to get a lock on the mutex and there is no deadlock.
A deadlock would occur for example if you have two mutexes and two threads try to lock them in different order:
```
// thread A
  std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk1(mutex1);
  std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk2(mutex2);    // X

  // thread B
  std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk2(mutex2);
  std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk1(mutex1);    // X
```

Here it can happen that thread A locks mutex1, thread B locks mutex2 and then both wait in `X` for the other thread to release the other mutex, but this will never happen. Its a deadlock.
2.
A lock is merely a slim RAII type. Its only purpose is to call `lock` on the mutex when created and `unlock` when destroyed. You can write the same code without the lock, by manually locking / unlocking the mutex, but when there is an exception while a mutex is locked it will never be unlocked.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 1

Created at 2022-09-14 12:06:35

------------

> @SolomonSlow my question is, if we use unique_lock to wrap the mutex in different threads, why there is no deadlock...?
"Deadlock" means that there is some set of threads in which none of the threads can proceed until one of the other members of the set does something. In the simplest possible deadlock, there are just two threads, and there are  mutexes:
- `unique_lock`- 
Thread A can't do anything until thread B does something first, and thread B can't do anything until thread A does something first. Neither thread will ever be able to do anything again. Deadlock.
You can't have a deadlock without at least two different things (e.g., two different mutexes) that the threads wait for. If there's only one mutex, then whichever thread has it locked, that thread will be able to proceed. It's only a deadlock when  thread is able to proceed.
In your example, each of the five threads settles in to a loop:
- - - - - 
Whenever one of your threads locks the mutex, there's nothing to stop it from printing and then going back to the top and unlocking the mutex again so that some other thread can run. There's no deadlock.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 1

Created at 2022-09-15 15:21:47

------------

This is not an answer. It's just an illustration. I turned your one example into three different examples that all achieve the same result. I hope it may help you to better understand what `unique_lock` does.
The first way doesn't use `unique_lock` at all. It only uses the `mutex`. This is the old-school way—the way we used to do things before [RAII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_acquisition_is_initialization) was discovered.
```
std::mutex m;

{
    ...
    while (...) {
      do_work_outside_critical_section();
      m.lock();                        // explicitly put a "lock" on the mutex.
      do_work_inside_critical_section();
      m.unlock();                      // explicitly remove the "lock."
    }
}
```

The old-school way is risky because if `do_work_inside_critical_section()` throws an exception, it will leave the mutex in a locked state, and any thread that tries to lock it again probably will hang forever.

---


The second way uses `unique_lock`, which is an embodiment of [RAII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_acquisition_is_initialization).
The RAII pattern ensures that there's no way out of this code block that leaves a lock on mutex `m`. The `unique_lock` destructor always will be called, no matter what, and the destructor removes the lock.
```
std::mutex m;

{
    ...
    while (...) {
      do_work_outside_critical_section();
      std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(m); // constructor puts a "lock" on the mutex.
      do_work_inside_critical_section();
    }                                     // destructor implicitly removes the "lock."
}
```

Notice that in this version, a `unique_lock` is constructed and destructed every time around the loop. That might sound costly, but it really isn't. `unique_lock` is  to be used in this way.

---


The last way is what you did in your example. It only creates and destroys the `unique_lock` one time, but then it repeatedly locks and unlocks it within the loop.  This works, but it's more code lines than the version above, which makes it a little bit harder to read and understand.
```
std::mutex m;

{
    ...
    std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lk(m); // constructor puts a "lock" on the mutex.
    while (...) {
      lk.unlock();                      // explicitly remove the "lock" from the mutex.
      do_work_outside_critical_section();
      lk.lock();                        // explicitly put a "lock" back on the mutex.
      do_work_inside_critical_section();
    }
}                                       // destructor implicitly removes the "lock."
```



------------
    
    