
# Post \#71830496 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71830496/)

## How to properly solve memset() function MISRA errors in C?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 731 (682/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-513

Created at 2022-04-11 15:31:01

Tags: `c` `structure` `void-pointers` `memset` `misra`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have written a simple function to initialise the structure values using `memset()`. These are the code I have written in C language.

```
typedef struct{
 bool flag;
 bool check;
 int val_1;
 int val_2;
} MY_STRUCT;
```


```
static MY_STRUCT mystruct;

void Test()
{
  memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT)); 
}
```

When i run MISRA , i am getting this kind of error
```
The return value of non-void function 'memset' shall be used
```

I have tried to fix this warning using below method
```
(void)memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
```

But unfortunately, i am getting 2 new warnings
```
Cast between types that are not both pointers or not pointers

object of pointer type 'void*' cast to unrelated type 'void'
```

Anybody suggest how to fix this warning while using `memset()` function ? Also please explain to avoid such warnings in future.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The MISRA warning you're seeing is because MISRA C:2012 Rule 17.7 states that the value returned by a function having a non-void return type shall be used. `memset()` returns a pointer to the memory area `s` because it's defined as `void *memset(void *s, int c, size_t n);`. 

The MISRA warning is trying to ensure that you're checking the return value of functions that could potentially fail. However, `memset()` is a function that's not expected to fail if passed valid parameters, so it's common to see its return value ignored.

The cast you tried to use `(void)memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));` is not correct because it's trying to cast the return value of `memset()` which is a pointer (`void*`) to `void` which is not a pointer type. That's why you're seeing the additional warnings.

In your case, you can safely ignore this MISRA warning because `memset()` is not expected to fail. If you're using a static analysis tool, there should be a way to suppress this specific warning for this line of code.

If you really want to adhere to the MISRA rule, you could do something like this:

```c
void *p = memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
assert(p == &mystruct);
```

This will use the return value of `memset()`, and the `assert()` will check that `memset()` returned the pointer to the start of the structure as expected. Note that `assert()` is typically used for debugging and its behavior depends on the `NDEBUG` macro. If `NDEBUG` is defined, `assert()` does nothing.

In general, to avoid such warnings in the future, always use the return value of functions that return a value. If a function could fail and returns an error code, always check the error code. If a function returns a pointer, always check that the pointer is not `NULL` before using it.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The MISRA warning you're seeing is because the `memset()` function returns a pointer to the memory area it has set, and MISRA rules require that you do something with that return value. However, in most cases, programmers don't use the return value of `memset()`, because they know where they're setting memory and don't need the function to tell them.

The warning you're seeing after your attempted fix is because you're trying to cast the return value of `memset()` to `void`, which is not a pointer type. The `(void)` cast is often used to explicitly ignore a return value, but it seems that your MISRA checker is not happy with this.

One way to satisfy the MISRA rule could be to assign the return value of `memset()` to a variable, like this:

```c
void* p = memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
```

However, this will likely lead to another MISRA warning, because you're not using the `p` variable. To avoid this, you could use the `p` variable in a way that doesn't change the behavior of your program, like this:

```c
void* p = memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
if (p != &mystruct) {
    /* This should never happen */
    assert(false);
}
```

This code will cause your program to abort if `memset()` returns a value other than the address of `mystruct`, which should never happen. This satisfies the MISRA rule, because you're doing something with the return value of `memset()`, but it doesn't change the behavior of your program, because the `if` condition should never be true.

However, it's worth noting that using `memset()` to initialize a struct is not always safe, because it doesn't work with non-trivial types and it doesn't handle padding bytes correctly. A safer way to initialize your struct would be to use designated initializers, like this:

```c
mystruct = (MY_STRUCT){ .flag = false, .check = false, .val_1 = 0, .val_2 = 0 };
```

This code explicitly sets each member of `mystruct` to zero (or `false` for the `bool` members), which is safer and more portable than using `memset()`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The MISRA warning you're seeing is because the `memset` function returns a pointer to the memory area it has set, and MISRA rules require that you use (or deliberately ignore) the return value of non-void functions. This is to ensure that you don't accidentally ignore an error condition.

However, in the case of `memset`, it's generally safe to ignore the return value, because `memset` doesn't have any error conditions that it can report via its return value. The cast you've tried to use doesn't work because you're trying to cast a pointer (`void*`) to `void`, which is not a pointer type.

One way to suppress the warning and comply with MISRA rules is to assign the return value to a dummy variable, like this:

```c
void* dummy = memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
(void)dummy; // to avoid unused variable warning
```

This way, you're technically using the return value (by assigning it to a variable), but you're not actually doing anything with it.

However, it's worth noting that using `memset` to initialize a struct is not always safe or portable, because it makes assumptions about the memory layout of the struct. For example, it assumes that a value of 0 is a suitable null value for all types, which is not always the case. A more portable and type-safe way to initialize a struct to zero in C is to use a designated initializer:

```c
mystruct = (MY_STRUCT){0};
```

This will zero-initialize all members of the struct, regardless of their type, and it doesn't rely on the memory layout of the struct.

--------
