
# Post \#71830496 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71830496/)

## How to properly solve memset() function MISRA errors in C?

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 731 (682/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-513

Created at 2022-04-11 15:31:01

Tags: `c` `structure` `void-pointers` `memset` `misra`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have written a simple function to initialise the structure values using `memset()`. These are the code I have written in C language.

```
typedef struct{
 bool flag;
 bool check;
 int val_1;
 int val_2;
} MY_STRUCT;
```


```
static MY_STRUCT mystruct;

void Test()
{
  memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT)); 
}
```

When i run MISRA , i am getting this kind of error
```
The return value of non-void function 'memset' shall be used
```

I have tried to fix this warning using below method
```
(void)memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
```

But unfortunately, i am getting 2 new warnings
```
Cast between types that are not both pointers or not pointers

object of pointer type 'void*' cast to unrelated type 'void'
```

Anybody suggest how to fix this warning while using `memset()` function ? Also please explain to avoid such warnings in future.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The warning you are getting is because the `memset()` function returns a pointer to the memory block that was set. However, in your code, you are not using the return value of `memset()`. To fix this warning, you can simply assign the return value of `memset()` to a variable and then cast it to `void` to indicate that you are not using the value.

Here's an example:

```
void Test()
{
  void *ptr = memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
  (void)ptr;
}
```

This code assigns the return value of `memset()` to a variable called `ptr`, and then casts it to `void` to indicate that it is not being used.

To avoid such warnings in the future, you should always use the return value of functions that return a value, unless you are absolutely sure that you don't need it. In this case, you can safely ignore the return value of `memset()`, but in other cases, ignoring the return value could lead to bugs or other issues.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The warning "The return value of non-void function 'memset' shall be used" is because the `memset()` function returns a pointer to the memory block that was set. In your code, you are not using the return value of `memset()`, which is causing the warning.

To fix this warning, you can assign the return value of `memset()` to a variable and then cast it to `void` to indicate that you are intentionally discarding the value. Here's an example:

```
void Test()
{
  void *ptr = memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
  (void)ptr;
}
```

This code assigns the return value of `memset()` to a `void*` variable called `ptr`, and then casts it to `void` to indicate that the value is intentionally being discarded.

The warnings "Cast between types that are not both pointers or not pointers" and "object of pointer type 'void*' cast to unrelated type 'void'" are caused by the cast to `void` in the previous example. To avoid these warnings, you can simply remove the cast to `void`:

```
void Test()
{
  (void)memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
}
```

This code still discards the return value of `memset()`, but without the cast to `void`. This should avoid the warnings you were seeing.

In general, it's a good practice to always use the return value of functions, especially if they are not `void` functions. If you don't need the return value, you can assign it to a variable and then discard it, as shown in the first example. This can help avoid warnings and make your code more robust.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The warning message you are getting is because the `memset()` function returns a pointer to the destination buffer, which you are not using in your code. To fix this warning, you can simply assign the return value of `memset()` to a variable of type `void*` and then cast it to the original type of the buffer. Here's an example:

```
void* ptr = memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
(void)ptr; // to suppress unused variable warning
```

This code assigns the return value of `memset()` to a variable of type `void*`, which can hold any pointer type. Then, the `(void)ptr` statement is used to suppress the warning about the unused variable.

As for the new warnings you are getting, they are caused by the cast from `void*` to `void`. To avoid these warnings, you can simply remove the cast, since it is not necessary. Here's the updated code:

```
memset(&mystruct, 0, sizeof(MY_STRUCT));
```

This code should not generate any warnings.

--------
