
# Post \#68225394 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68225394/)

## operator== marked 'override', but does not override

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 1990 (606/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-11-520

Created at 2021-07-02 12:39:53

Tags: `c++` `operator-overloading` `c++14`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `c++/c` (full parsed tag list: `c++`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am have an issue while overriding the base class operator==. Here is the code.
```
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

template <typename T>
class IClient {
  virtual const std::vector<T>& getID() = 0;
  virtual bool isEqual(const std::vector<T>& anotherID) = 0;
  virtual bool operator==(const IClient& anotherClient) = 0;
};

class SeviceClient : public IClient<int8_t> {
  const std::vector<int8_t> ID;

 public:
  SeviceClient(const std::vector<int8_t>& ID) : ID(std::move(ID)) {}
  SeviceClient(const std::vector<int8_t>&& ID) : ID(std::move(ID)) {}

  const std::vector<int8_t>& getID() override {
      return ID;
  }
  bool isEqual(const std::vector<int8_t>& anotherID) override {
      return true;
  }
  bool operator==(const SeviceClient& anotherClient) override {
      return true;
  }
};
```

It complains that
```
error: 'bool SeviceClient::operator==(const SeviceClient&)' marked 'override', but does not override
```

The compiler looks happy when i convert the function to
```
bool operator==(const IClient<int8_t>& anotherClient) override {}
```

Is this solution for the problem or am I missing something here ?
Thanks


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is because the `operator==` in your `SeviceClient` class is not matching the signature of the `operator==` in the base `IClient` class. 

In your `IClient` class, you have declared `operator==` as:
```cpp
virtual bool operator==(const IClient& anotherClient) = 0;
```
This means that any derived class that overrides this function must also accept a `const IClient&` as a parameter.

However, in your `SeviceClient` class, you have declared `operator==` as:
```cpp
bool operator==(const SeviceClient& anotherClient) override;
```
This is not the same signature as the base class function, because it accepts a `const SeviceClient&` instead of a `const IClient&`. This is why the compiler is giving you an error.

When you change the `SeviceClient` `operator==` to accept a `const IClient<int8_t>&`, the signatures match and the compiler is happy.

So, yes, your solution is correct. You need to make sure the signatures of your overridden functions match the base class functions exactly. If you want to compare `SeviceClient` objects specifically, you can do a dynamic cast inside the `operator==` function.

Here is an example of how you might do this:

```cpp
bool operator==(const IClient<int8_t>& anotherClient) override {
    const SeviceClient* anotherServiceClient = dynamic_cast<const SeviceClient*>(&anotherClient);
    if (anotherServiceClient) {
        // Now you can compare SeviceClient objects specifically
        // For example:
        return this->ID == anotherServiceClient->getID();
    } else {
        // Handle the case where anotherClient is not a SeviceClient
        return false;
    }
}
```

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error is because the `operator==` in your `SeviceClient` class is not matching the signature of the `operator==` in your `IClient` class. 

In `IClient` class, you have declared `operator==` as:
```cpp
virtual bool operator==(const IClient& anotherClient) = 0;
```
So, it expects a reference to an `IClient` object.

But in `SeviceClient` class, you have declared `operator==` as:
```cpp
bool operator==(const SeviceClient& anotherClient) override;
```
Here, it expects a reference to a `SeviceClient` object.

That's why the compiler is complaining that `SeviceClient::operator==` does not override any base class method, because it can't find a method with the same signature in the base class.

To fix this, you should change `operator==` in `SeviceClient` to match the signature in `IClient`, like you did:
```cpp
bool operator==(const IClient<int8_t>& anotherClient) override;
```
This is the correct solution. However, you will need to use dynamic_cast or static_cast to convert `anotherClient` to `SeviceClient` inside the method body if you need to access `SeviceClient` specific methods or members. Be careful with this, as it can lead to runtime errors if `anotherClient` is not actually a `SeviceClient`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is because the `operator==` in your `SeviceClient` class is not matching the signature of the `operator==` in your `IClient` class. 

In your `IClient` class, you've declared `operator==` as:
```cpp
virtual bool operator==(const IClient& anotherClient) = 0;
```
This means that any class that inherits from `IClient` must provide an `operator==` that takes a `const IClient&` as an argument.

However, in your `SeviceClient` class, you've declared `operator==` as:
```cpp
bool operator==(const SeviceClient& anotherClient) override;
```
This does not match the signature in `IClient`, because it takes a `const SeviceClient&` instead of a `const IClient&`. 

When you change the `operator==` in `SeviceClient` to take a `const IClient<int8_t>&`, it matches the signature in `IClient`, so the compiler is happy.

So yes, your solution is correct. You should override `operator==` in `SeviceClient` as follows:
```cpp
bool operator==(const IClient<int8_t>& anotherClient) override {
    // your implementation here
}
```
Just make sure that your implementation of `operator==` correctly compares `SeviceClient` objects. You may need to use `dynamic_cast` or `static_cast` to downcast the `IClient<int8_t>&` to a `SeviceClient&` so you can access `SeviceClient`'s members and methods.

--------
