
# Post \#58896403 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58896403/)

## .zshenv:2: command not found: rbenv

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 21074 (293/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-476

Created at 2019-11-17 00:11:40

Tags: `ruby` `zsh` `rbenv` `zshrc`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When switching from bash to zsh, I looked up how to resolve an issue with my rbenv folder not being used correctly by zsh and found this: 

```
$ echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshenv
$ echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.zshenv
$ echo 'source $HOME/.zshenv' >> ~/.zshrc
$ exec $SHELL
```


I ran all of these and seem to be using the correct rbenv folder now, but I get this error message whenever I open a new iTerm window: 

```
/Users/myname/.zshenv:2: command not found: rbenv
```


What am I doing wrong? Any help would be very appreciated.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing indicates that the `rbenv` command is not found. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. `rbenv` is not installed. You can check this by typing `which rbenv` in your terminal. If it returns a path, then `rbenv` is installed. If it doesn't return anything, you need to install `rbenv`.

2. The `PATH` environment variable is not correctly set. The `PATH` variable is a list of directories that your shell searches through when you enter a command. If the directory containing `rbenv` is not in your `PATH`, your shell won't be able to find it. 

The commands you ran should have added the necessary lines to your `.zshenv` file to set the `PATH` correctly. However, it's possible that there's a problem with these lines. 

You can check the contents of your `.zshenv` file by typing `cat ~/.zshenv` in your terminal. The output should include these lines:

```
export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"
eval "$(rbenv init -)"
```

If these lines are not present, or if they're not correct, you can add or modify them. To do this, open the `.zshenv` file in a text editor, add or modify the lines, and then save and close the file. 

If the lines are present and correct, try running `source ~/.zshenv` in your terminal. This will execute the commands in the `.zshenv` file in your current shell. If this resolves the issue, it means that the `.zshenv` file is not being sourced when you start a new shell. 

To fix this, you can add the line `source ~/.zshenv` to your `.zshrc` file. This will ensure that the `.zshenv` file is sourced every time you start a new shell. 

If none of these steps resolve the issue, it's possible that there's a problem with your `rbenv` installation. In this case, you might need to reinstall `rbenv`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the `rbenv` command is not found. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. `rbenv` is not installed. You can check this by running `which rbenv`. If it returns no output, then `rbenv` is not installed. You can install it using Homebrew with the command `brew install rbenv`.

2. `rbenv` is installed but not in your PATH. The commands you ran should have added `rbenv` to your PATH, but there might be an issue. You can check your PATH by running `echo $PATH`. If the path to `rbenv` is not there, you can add it manually.

3. The `rbenv init` command is not running correctly. This command sets up your shell for `rbenv`. If it's not running correctly, `rbenv` won't work. You can try running `rbenv init` manually and see if there are any error messages.

4. The `~/.zshenv` file is not being sourced correctly. This file should be sourced every time a new shell is started. You can check if it's being sourced by adding a line like `echo 'sourcing .zshenv'` to the top of the file, then opening a new shell and seeing if the message is printed.

If none of these solutions work, please provide more information about your setup and I'll try to help further.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the `rbenv` command is not found. This could be because `rbenv` is not installed, or the path to `rbenv` is not correctly set in your `PATH` environment variable.

Here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Check if `rbenv` is installed: You can do this by running the command `which rbenv`. If `rbenv` is installed, this command will output the path to the `rbenv` executable. If `rbenv` is not installed, this command will not output anything.

2. Install `rbenv` if it's not installed: If `rbenv` is not installed, you can install it using Homebrew by running the command `brew install rbenv`.

3. Check your `PATH` variable: You can do this by running the command `echo $PATH`. This command will output the directories that are currently in your `PATH` variable. Make sure that the directory containing the `rbenv` executable is in your `PATH`.

4. Modify your `PATH` variable: If the directory containing the `rbenv` executable is not in your `PATH`, you can add it by modifying the `export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"` line in your `~/.zshenv` file. Replace `$HOME/.rbenv/bin` with the actual path to the directory containing the `rbenv` executable.

5. Restart your shell: After making changes to your `~/.zshenv` file, you need to restart your shell for the changes to take effect. You can do this by running the command `exec $SHELL`.

6. Check if the problem is resolved: After restarting your shell, open a new iTerm window and see if you still get the error message. If you do, there might be other issues that need to be addressed.

--------
