
# Post \#67993633 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67993633/)

## How to fix this in error rails "warning: 299 Elasticsearch built-in security features are not enabled. Without authentication, your cluster could..."

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 18516 (315/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-489

Created at 2021-06-15 21:19:36

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby` `elasticsearch` `homebrew` `searchkick`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a Rails app that uses Searchkick and after updating my gems and yarn, I'm getting this Elasticsearch warning"
```
warning: 299 Elasticsearch-7.13.1-9a7758028e4ea59bcab41c12004603c5a7dd84a9 "Elasticsearch built-in security features are not enabled. Without authentication, your cluster could be accessible to anyone. See https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.13/security-minimal-setup.html to enable security."
```

I tried following the instructions at the [webpage mentioned](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.13/security-minimal-setup.html), but I'm getting stuck at the `run the elasticsearch-setup-passwords utility` step. I can't find this script anywhere.
I'm currently on an M1 Mac, but running terminal with Rosetta, so homebrew was installed with Rosetta.
This is just for my development machine, so it doesn't seem like security is that important and previous versions of Elasticsearch installed with Homebrew did not display this warning.
Here's what I'm running now:
- - - `brew install Elasticsearch``brew services start elasticsearch`- 
Is there a way to ignore this message? Or how do I fix this? It's so large in my console that I can't read my tests.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The warning message you're seeing is because Elasticsearch 7.13.1 has built-in security features that are not enabled by default. As you mentioned, this is just for your development machine, so you might not need these security features. 

To disable the warning, you can add the following lines to your `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file:

```yml
xpack.security.enabled: false
xpack.security.transport.ssl.enabled: false
```

The `elasticsearch.yml` file is usually located in the `/usr/local/etc/elasticsearch` directory if you installed Elasticsearch with Homebrew.

After adding these lines, you need to restart Elasticsearch for the changes to take effect. You can do this by running the following command:

```bash
brew services restart elasticsearch
```

If you want to enable the security features, you would need to install Elasticsearch from the official Elasticsearch distribution, not from Homebrew. The `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` utility is not included in the Homebrew version of Elasticsearch. You can download the official distribution from the Elasticsearch website.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The warning message you're seeing is because Elasticsearch 7.13.1 has built-in security features that are not enabled by default. While it's true that for a development machine, security may not be as critical, it's still a good practice to follow the security guidelines.

However, if you want to suppress this warning, you can do so by adding the following line to your `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file:

```yml
xpack.security.enabled: false
```

The `elasticsearch.yml` file is typically located in the `/usr/local/etc/elasticsearch` directory if you installed Elasticsearch with Homebrew. If you can't find it there, you can use the `locate` command to find it:

```bash
locate elasticsearch.yml
```

After adding this line, you'll need to restart Elasticsearch for the changes to take effect:

```bash
brew services restart elasticsearch
```

If you want to enable the security features, the `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` utility is part of the Elasticsearch package, but it's not included in the Homebrew package. You would need to download Elasticsearch directly from the Elastic website and follow the instructions there to enable security.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The warning message you're seeing is because Elasticsearch 7.13.1 has built-in security features that are not enabled. This is a warning, not an error, so your application should still function correctly. However, it's always a good idea to follow best security practices, even in a development environment.

If you want to disable this warning, you can add the following line to your `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file:

```yml
xpack.security.enabled: false
```

This will disable the built-in security features and should remove the warning.

The `elasticsearch.yml` file is typically located in the `/usr/local/etc/elasticsearch` directory if you installed Elasticsearch with Homebrew. If you can't find it, you can use the `find` command to locate it:

```bash
find / -name "elasticsearch.yml"
```

If you want to enable the security features, the `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` utility is part of the Elasticsearch package and should be located in the `/usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/` directory. However, this utility might not be available if you installed Elasticsearch with Homebrew. In that case, you would need to download and install Elasticsearch directly from the official website.

Remember to restart your Elasticsearch service after making any changes to the configuration file:

```bash
brew services restart elasticsearch
```

--------
