
# Post \#69229112 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69229112/)

## Error when trying to install devise in Ruby on Rails 7.0.0

**Vote**: 11 (370/702) **Views**: 2809 (578/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-478

Created at 2021-09-17 20:23:06

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby` `devise` `rubygems`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to install devise in the rails version I get the error of the latest version of devise
I have tried with other devise versions but it is update it to the latest,
this is the error:
```
/usr/local/bundle/gems/devise-4.8.0/lib/devise.rb:321:in `ref': undefined method `reference' for ActiveSupport::Dependencies:Module (NoMethodError)
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/devise-4.8.0/lib/devise.rb:340:in `mailer='
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/devise-4.8.0/lib/devise.rb:342:in `<module:Devise>'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/devise-4.8.0/lib/devise.rb:11:in `<main>'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/bootsnap-1.8.1/lib/bootsnap/load_path_cache/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:23:in `require'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/bootsnap-1.8.1/lib/bootsnap/load_path_cache/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:23:in `block in require_with_bootsnap_lfi'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/bootsnap-1.8.1/lib/bootsnap/load_path_cache/loaded_features_index.rb:92:in `register'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/bootsnap-1.8.1/lib/bootsnap/load_path_cache/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:22:in `require_with_bootsnap_lfi'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/bootsnap-1.8.1/lib/bootsnap/load_path_cache/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:31:in `require'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/bundle/gems/zeitwerk-2.5.0.beta3/lib/zeitwerk/kernel.rb:35:in `require'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/lib/ruby/3.0.0/bundler/runtime.rb:66:in `block (2 levels) in require'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/lib/ruby/3.0.0/bundler/runtime.rb:61:in `each'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/lib/ruby/3.0.0/bundler/runtime.rb:61:in `block in require'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/lib/ruby/3.0.0/bundler/runtime.rb:50:in `each'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/lib/ruby/3.0.0/bundler/runtime.rb:50:in `require'
web_1  |    from /usr/local/lib/ruby/3.0.0/bundler.rb:174:in `require'
```

if you could help me I'd be grateful


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the issue is related to the version of Rails or ActiveSupport that you are using. Devise 4.8.0 requires ActiveSupport 5.0 or higher. You can try updating ActiveSupport by running `bundle update activesupport` and then reinstalling Devise by running `bundle install` again.

If that doesn't work, you can try downgrading Devise to a version that is compatible with your current version of Rails and ActiveSupport. You can check the Devise documentation to find the compatible version for your Rails version.

Another solution could be to update your Rails version to a newer version that is compatible with Devise 4.8.0. You can check the Devise documentation to find the compatible Rails version for Devise 4.8.0.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like the issue is related to the version of ActiveSupport that you are using. Devise 4.8.0 requires ActiveSupport 4.2 or higher, but it seems like you might be using an older version of ActiveSupport.

To fix this issue, you can try updating your version of ActiveSupport by adding the following line to your Gemfile:

```
gem 'activesupport', '>= 4.2'
```

Then run `bundle install` to install the updated version of ActiveSupport.

If that doesn't work, you can try downgrading your version of Devise to an earlier version that is compatible with your version of ActiveSupport. You can do this by specifying the version number in your Gemfile:

```
gem 'devise', '4.7.3'
```

Then run `bundle install` to install the specified version of Devise.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the issue is related to the version of Rails or ActiveSupport that you are using. Devise 4.8.0 requires ActiveSupport 5.0 or higher, so you may need to upgrade your Rails version or ActiveSupport version to meet this requirement.

You can try updating your Gemfile to include the latest version of Rails and ActiveSupport, and then run `bundle update` to install the latest versions of all your gems. Here's an example of what your Gemfile might look like:

```
source 'https://rubygems.org'

ruby '3.0.0'

gem 'rails', '~> 6.1.3'
gem 'devise', '~> 4.8.0'
```

After updating your Gemfile, run `bundle update` to install the latest versions of your gems. Then try running your Rails application again and see if the issue is resolved.

If you are still having issues, you can try uninstalling and reinstalling Devise:

```
gem uninstall devise
bundle install
```

This should install the latest version of Devise that is compatible with your version of Rails and ActiveSupport.

--------
