
# Post \#67993633 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67993633/)

## How to fix this in error rails "warning: 299 Elasticsearch built-in security features are not enabled. Without authentication, your cluster could..."

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 18516 (315/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-489

Created at 2021-06-15 21:19:36

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby` `elasticsearch` `homebrew` `searchkick`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a Rails app that uses Searchkick and after updating my gems and yarn, I'm getting this Elasticsearch warning"
```
warning: 299 Elasticsearch-7.13.1-9a7758028e4ea59bcab41c12004603c5a7dd84a9 "Elasticsearch built-in security features are not enabled. Without authentication, your cluster could be accessible to anyone. See https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.13/security-minimal-setup.html to enable security."
```

I tried following the instructions at the [webpage mentioned](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.13/security-minimal-setup.html), but I'm getting stuck at the `run the elasticsearch-setup-passwords utility` step. I can't find this script anywhere.
I'm currently on an M1 Mac, but running terminal with Rosetta, so homebrew was installed with Rosetta.
This is just for my development machine, so it doesn't seem like security is that important and previous versions of Elasticsearch installed with Homebrew did not display this warning.
Here's what I'm running now:
- - - `brew install Elasticsearch``brew services start elasticsearch`- 
Is there a way to ignore this message? Or how do I fix this? It's so large in my console that I can't read my tests.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The warning message is indicating that Elasticsearch's built-in security features are not enabled, which means that anyone can access your cluster without authentication. While it may not be a concern for your development machine, it's still recommended to enable security features to protect your data.

To fix this issue, you can follow these steps:

1. Install the Elasticsearch security plugin by running the following command:

   ```
   bin/elasticsearch-plugin install -b https://d3g5vo6xdbdb9a.cloudfront.net/downloads/elasticsearch-plugins/opendistro-security/opendistro_security-1.13.2.0.zip
   ```

2. Restart Elasticsearch:

   ```
   brew services restart elasticsearch
   ```

3. Run the `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` utility to set up passwords for the built-in users:

   ```
   bin/elasticsearch-setup-passwords auto
   ```

   If you can't find the `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` script, it's likely because it's not in your `PATH`. You can try running it from the Elasticsearch installation directory:

   ```
   /usr/local/Cellar/elasticsearch/<version>/libexec/bin/elasticsearch-setup-passwords auto
   ```

   Replace `<version>` with your Elasticsearch version.

After completing these steps, the warning message should disappear. If you still want to ignore the warning message, you can add the following line to your `config/environments/development.rb` file:

```
config.elasticsearch.version = "7.13.1"
```

This will tell Searchkick to use version 7.13.1 of Elasticsearch, which should not display the warning message. However, keep in mind that this is not recommended for production environments.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

While it is possible to ignore this message, it is not recommended as it could potentially leave your Elasticsearch cluster vulnerable to unauthorized access. 

To fix this issue, you will need to enable security features in Elasticsearch. Here are the steps you can follow:

1. Install the Elasticsearch security plugin by running the following command:

```
bin/elasticsearch-plugin install -b https://d3g5vo6xdbdb9a.cloudfront.net/downloads/elasticsearch-plugins/security/security-7.13.1.zip
```

2. Add the following lines to your Elasticsearch configuration file (`/usr/local/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml`):

```
xpack.security.enabled: true
xpack.security.transport.ssl.enabled: true
```

3. Restart Elasticsearch:

```
brew services restart elasticsearch
```

4. Run the `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` utility to set up passwords for the built-in users:

```
bin/elasticsearch-setup-passwords auto
```

This should resolve the warning message and enable security features in Elasticsearch.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It's not recommended to ignore this message as it's a security warning. However, if you're just using Elasticsearch for development purposes, you can disable security features by adding the following line to your `config/elasticsearch.yml` file:

```
searchkick:
  es_client: Elasticsearch::Client.new(url: ENV['ELASTICSEARCH_URL'], transport_options: {request: {timeout: 250}})
  indices: [MyModel]
  disable_request_logging: false
  # Add the following line to disable security features
  insecure: true
```

This will disable security features and remove the warning message. However, please note that this is not recommended for production environments.

If you want to enable security features, you can try installing Elasticsearch with the `--with-basic-authentication` option:

```
brew install elasticsearch-full --with-basic-authentication
```

This should enable security features and allow you to run the `elasticsearch-setup-passwords` utility. If you still can't find the script, you can try running `find / -name elasticsearch-setup-passwords` to search for it.

Alternatively, you can try installing Elasticsearch manually from the Elasticsearch website and follow the instructions to enable security features.

--------
