
# Post \#71332602 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71332602/)

## Upgrading to Ruby 3.1 causes Psych::DisallowedClass exception when using YAML.load_file

**Vote**: 33 (185/702) **Views**: 12127 (393/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-482

Created at 2022-03-03 05:44:50

Tags: `ruby` `yaml` `activesupport`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby` `yaml`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When upgrading to ruby 3.1, I am seeing the following sort error message when using `YAML.load_file some_file_name`
```
Psych::DisallowedClass:
   Tried to load unspecified class: Matrix
```

Other load statements cause similar errors but cite different unspecified classes e.g. OpenStruct.  It appears that the latest version of YAML only loads classes from a permitted white list, so it is necessary to use a permitted_class keyword to allow other classes. I have tried
```
hsh = YAML.load_file some_file_name, permitted_classes: [Matrix, OpenStruct]
```

but this gives the error
```
Psych::DisallowedClass:
   Tried to load unspecified class: Symbol
```

how do I fix this?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In Ruby 3.1, YAML has introduced a new security feature that restricts loading of certain classes by default. To fix the error, you need to explicitly allow the classes that you want to load using the `permitted_classes` option.

However, the `permitted_classes` option only allows the specified classes and their subclasses. In your case, the `OpenStruct` class has a `Symbol` attribute, which is not allowed by default. To allow loading of `Symbol`, you need to add it to the `permitted_symbols` option.

Here's an example of how to load a YAML file with `Matrix`, `OpenStruct`, and `Symbol` permitted:

```ruby
require 'yaml'

permitted_classes = [Matrix, OpenStruct]
permitted_symbols = [:foo, :bar] # add any symbols used in the YAML file

hsh = YAML.safe_load(File.read(some_file_name), permitted_classes: permitted_classes, permitted_symbols: permitted_symbols)
```

Note that `safe_load` is used instead of `load_file` to avoid potential security issues with loading files from untrusted sources. Also, make sure to add all the necessary classes and symbols to the permitted lists to avoid any further errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `permitted_classes` option in YAML.load_file only allows the specified classes to be loaded, but it does not allow any other classes that may be used as part of the specified classes. In your case, `Matrix` and `OpenStruct` may use other classes such as `Symbol` that are not permitted by default.

To fix this, you can add the `Symbol` class to the `permitted_classes` list as well. You can also use the `permitted_symbols` option to allow specific symbols to be loaded. Here's an example:

```
hsh = YAML.load_file some_file_name, permitted_classes: [Matrix, OpenStruct, Symbol], permitted_symbols: [:some_symbol]
```

This will allow the `Matrix`, `OpenStruct`, and `Symbol` classes to be loaded, as well as the `some_symbol` symbol. You can add more symbols to the `permitted_symbols` list as needed.

Note that allowing arbitrary classes and symbols to be loaded from YAML files can be a security risk, so it's important to only allow the classes and symbols that are necessary for your application to function properly.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In Ruby 3.1, the YAML parser has been updated to only allow a whitelist of permitted classes to be loaded. This is a security feature to prevent arbitrary code execution when loading YAML files.

To fix the error, you need to add the `Symbol` class to the `permitted_classes` list. You can do this by modifying your code to:

```
hsh = YAML.safe_load(File.read(some_file_name), permitted_classes: [Matrix, OpenStruct, Symbol])
```

Note that `safe_load` is used instead of `load_file` to avoid loading the file from the filesystem directly. Instead, the file is read into memory using `File.read` and then passed to `safe_load`.

Also, make sure that you only add classes to the `permitted_classes` list that you trust and are safe to load from the YAML file.

--------
