
# Post \#58339607 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58339607/)

## Why does Rails fails to boot with "Expected to find a manifest file in `app/assets/config/manifest.js` (Sprockets::Railtie::ManifestNeededError)"?

**Vote**: 76 (82/702) **Views**: 28595 (237/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-481

Created at 2019-10-11 10:45:31

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby-on-rails-5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After `bundle update` my Rails app fails to boot with:

```
Expected to find a manifest file in `app/assets/config/manifest.js` (Sprockets::Railtie::ManifestNeededError)
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs when the Sprockets manifest file is missing or not up-to-date. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Run `rails assets:precompile` to regenerate the manifest file.
2. If the above step does not work, try deleting the `public/assets` directory and running `rails assets:precompile` again.
3. If the issue persists, try running `bundle exec rake assets:clean` to remove any old assets and then run `rails assets:precompile` again.

If none of the above steps work, you may need to investigate further to see if there are any other issues with your application's asset pipeline configuration.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error occurs when the Sprockets manifest file is missing or not up-to-date. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Run `bundle exec rake assets:precompile` to generate the manifest file.
2. If the above step doesn't work, try deleting the `public/assets` directory and running `bundle exec rake assets:precompile` again.
3. If the issue persists, try running `bundle exec rake assets:clobber` to remove all compiled assets and then run `bundle exec rake assets:precompile` again.

If none of the above steps work, you may need to investigate further to determine the root cause of the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error occurs when Sprockets, the asset pipeline used by Rails, cannot find the `manifest.js` file in the `app/assets/config` directory. This file is generated by the `rake assets:precompile` task and is used to map asset filenames to their compiled versions.

To fix this error, you can try running the `rake assets:precompile` task manually:

```
bundle exec rake assets:precompile
```

This should generate the `manifest.js` file and allow your app to boot.

If this doesn't work, you can try deleting the `tmp/cache` directory and running the `rake assets:precompile` task again:

```
rm -rf tmp/cache
bundle exec rake assets:precompile
```

If neither of these solutions work, you may need to investigate further to determine why the `manifest.js` file is not being generated properly.

--------
