
# Post \#66246528 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66246528/)

## Herkou Redis - certificate verify failed (self signed certificate in certificate chain)

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 5303 (514/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-487

Created at 2021-02-17 16:57:35

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `heroku` `redis` `heroku-redis`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have been using heroku redis for a while now on one of my side projects. I currently use it for 3 things

1. It serves as a place for me to store firebase certificates
2. It is used for caching data on the site
3. It is used for rails sidekiq jobs


Recently, my heroku usage went up and I had to change it to use heroku redis premium plan. Ever since then I have been getting `error: SSL_connect returned=1 errno=0 state=error: certificate verify failed (self signed certificate in certificate chain)` somehow. Everything stayed the same yet the error started popping out of nowhere.
Does heroku-redis premium plan work fundamentally different than a basic heroku-redis plan?
I am using ruby on rails, deployed on heroku with heroku redis if that helps.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It's possible that the error you're seeing is related to the SSL certificate on your Redis instance. The Heroku Redis Premium plan uses SSL encryption by default, which means that your Redis client needs to verify the SSL certificate presented by the Redis server.

One possible cause of the error you're seeing is that your Redis client is not configured to trust the SSL certificate presented by the Redis server. This could be because the certificate is self-signed or because it was signed by a certificate authority that your Redis client doesn't trust.

To fix this issue, you may need to update your Redis client's SSL configuration to trust the certificate presented by the Redis server. The exact steps to do this will depend on the Redis client you're using and how it's configured.

If you're using the Redis gem in your Ruby on Rails application, you can try adding the following code to your `config/initializers/redis.rb` file:

```
require 'redis'
require 'redis/connection/hiredis'
require 'redis-ssl'

Redis.current = Redis.new(url: ENV['REDIS_URL'], ssl_params: { verify_mode: OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_PEER })
```

This will configure the Redis client to verify the SSL certificate presented by the Redis server.

If this doesn't work, you may need to contact Heroku support for further assistance. They should be able to help you troubleshoot the issue and determine if there's a problem with your Redis instance or your Redis client configuration.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It's possible that the error you're seeing is related to the SSL certificate on your Redis instance. Heroku Redis Premium uses SSL encryption by default, which means that your Redis client needs to be able to verify the SSL certificate presented by the Redis server.

One thing you can try is to explicitly tell your Redis client to trust the Heroku Redis Premium SSL certificate. You can do this by setting the `ssl_ca_cert` option in your Redis client configuration to the contents of the Heroku Redis Premium SSL certificate. You can find the certificate by running the following command:

```
heroku redis:info --premium --app your-app-name | grep -A 1 "SSL CA Certificate"
```

This will output the SSL certificate in PEM format. Copy the contents of the certificate and set the `ssl_ca_cert` option in your Redis client configuration to the certificate contents.

If this doesn't work, you may want to reach out to Heroku support for further assistance. They should be able to help you troubleshoot the issue and determine if there are any other configuration changes you need to make to use Heroku Redis Premium.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It's possible that the error you're seeing is related to the SSL certificate on your Redis instance. The Heroku Redis Premium plan uses SSL encryption by default, which means that your Redis client needs to verify the SSL certificate presented by the Redis server.

One possible cause of the error you're seeing is that your Redis client is not able to verify the SSL certificate presented by the Redis server. This can happen if the SSL certificate is self-signed or if it's signed by a certificate authority that your Redis client doesn't trust.

To troubleshoot this issue, you can try the following:

1. Check the SSL certificate presented by your Redis server. You can do this by running the following command:

   ```
   openssl s_client -connect <redis-host>:<redis-port>
   ```

   Replace `<redis-host>` and `<redis-port>` with the hostname and port of your Redis instance. This command should print out information about the SSL certificate presented by the Redis server.

2. Check if your Redis client trusts the SSL certificate presented by the Redis server. Depending on the Redis client library you're using, there may be different ways to do this. For example, if you're using the `redis` gem in Ruby, you can specify the path to a CA certificate file using the `ssl_ca_cert` option.

3. If you're still having issues, you can try disabling SSL encryption on your Redis instance temporarily to see if that resolves the issue. You can do this by setting the `requirepass` option to an empty string and the `ssl` option to `false` in your Redis configuration.

It's also possible that the error you're seeing is unrelated to the SSL certificate. If you're still having issues after trying the above steps, you may want to reach out to Heroku support for further assistance.

--------
