
# Post \#58896403 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58896403/)

## .zshenv:2: command not found: rbenv

**Vote**: 8 (428/702) **Views**: 21074 (293/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-476

Created at 2019-11-17 00:11:40

Tags: `ruby` `zsh` `rbenv` `zshrc`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When switching from bash to zsh, I looked up how to resolve an issue with my rbenv folder not being used correctly by zsh and found this: 

```
$ echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshenv
$ echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.zshenv
$ echo 'source $HOME/.zshenv' >> ~/.zshrc
$ exec $SHELL
```


I ran all of these and seem to be using the correct rbenv folder now, but I get this error message whenever I open a new iTerm window: 

```
/Users/myname/.zshenv:2: command not found: rbenv
```


What am I doing wrong? Any help would be very appreciated.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It looks like the rbenv command is not being recognized by your shell. This could be because the rbenv executable is not in your PATH environment variable. 

To fix this, you can try adding the following line to your ~/.zshrc file:

```
export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"
```

This will add the rbenv executable to your PATH so that it can be found by your shell.

After adding this line, save the file and then run the following command to reload your shell configuration:

```
source ~/.zshrc
```

This should fix the issue and allow you to use rbenv without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like the `rbenv` command is not being recognized by your shell. This could be due to a few different reasons, but here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure that rbenv is installed correctly and that the `rbenv` command is available in your `PATH`. You can check this by running `which rbenv` in your terminal. If it returns a path, then rbenv is installed correctly and in your `PATH`. If it doesn't return anything, then rbenv is not installed or not in your `PATH`.

2. Check that the `~/.zshenv` file is being sourced correctly. You can do this by running `echo $PATH` in your terminal. If the output includes the path to your rbenv installation, then the `~/.zshenv` file is being sourced correctly. If it doesn't include the path, then the `~/.zshenv` file is not being sourced correctly.

3. Make sure that the `rbenv init` command is being executed correctly. You can check this by running `rbenv init` in your terminal. If it outputs some commands that you can copy and paste into your shell, then `rbenv init` is working correctly. If it doesn't output anything, then there may be an issue with your rbenv installation.

4. Try adding the `rbenv` command to your `PATH` manually. You can do this by adding the following line to your `~/.zshrc` file:

   ```
   export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"
   ```

   Then run `source ~/.zshrc` in your terminal to reload your shell configuration.

Hopefully one of these solutions will help you resolve the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the rbenv command is not being recognized by zsh. This could be because the rbenv executable is not in the PATH environment variable. 

To fix this, try adding the following line to your ~/.zshrc file:

```
export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"
```

This will add the rbenv executable to the PATH variable so that zsh can find it. 

After adding this line, save the file and then run the following command to reload your zsh configuration:

```
source ~/.zshrc
```

This should resolve the issue and prevent the "command not found" error message from appearing in the future.

--------
