
# Post \#63650689 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63650689/)

## package configuration for libffi is not found in macOS while installing travis-cli

**Vote**: 22 (248/702) **Views**: 20511 (303/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-475

Created at 2020-08-29 18:52:37

Tags: `ruby` `macos` `rubygems` `libffi` `travis-ci-cli`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to install `gem install travis` to use `travis-cli` as per reference [https://rubygems.org/gems/travis](https://rubygems.org/gems/travis) but getting below error.
Tried solution mentioned here [https://github.com/ffi/ffi/issues/653](https://github.com/ffi/ffi/issues/653) :
```
brew reinstall libffi
export LDFLAGS="-L/usr/local/opt/libffi/lib"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/opt/libffi/lib/pkgconfig"
gem install travis
```

> package configuration for libffi is not found
"xcrun clang -o conftest -I/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk/System/Library/Frameworks/Ruby.framework/Versions/2.3/usr/include/ruby-2.3.0/universal-darwin16 -I/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk/System/Library/Frameworks/Ruby.framework/Versions/2.3/usr/include/ruby-2.3.0/ruby/backward -I/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk/System/Library/Frameworks/Ruby.framework/Versions/2.3/usr/include/ruby-2.3.0 -I. -D_XOPEN_SOURCE -D_DARWIN_C_SOURCE -D_DARWIN_UNLIMITED_SELECT -D_REENTRANT    -g -Os -pipe -DHAVE_GCC_ATOMIC_BUILTINS -iwithsysroot /usr/local/libressl/include conftest.c  -L. -L/System/Library/Frameworks/Ruby.framework/Versions/2.3/usr/lib -L.             -L /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX10.12.Internal.sdk/usr/local/libressl/lib -L/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX10.12.Internal.sdk/usr/local/lib   -arch x86_64 -arch i386   -lruby.2.3.0  -lpthread -ldl -lobjc "
In file included from conftest.c:1:
In file included from /Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk/System/Library/Frameworks/Ruby.framework/Versions/2.3/usr/include/ruby-2.3.0/ruby.h:33:
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk/System/Library/Frameworks/Ruby.framework/Versions/2.3/usr/include/ruby-2.3.0/ruby/ruby.h:24:10: fatal error: 'ruby/config.h' file not found
#include "ruby/config.h"
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 error generated.
checked program was:
/* begin */
1: #include "ruby.h"
2:
3: int main(int argc, char * end */
Any help will be appreciated! try finding out but didn't find helpful


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that the `ruby/config.h` file is not found. This is likely because the Ruby development headers are not installed or not found in your system.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Reinstall Ruby using Homebrew**: Homebrew is a package manager for macOS that can help manage software installations. It's possible that the Ruby version you're using is not compatible with the gem you're trying to install. You can install a new version of Ruby using Homebrew:

   ```bash
   brew install ruby
   ```

   After installing Ruby, you may need to update your `PATH` to use the Homebrew version of Ruby instead of the system version. You can do this by adding the following line to your shell profile file (like `~/.bash_profile` or `~/.zshrc`):

   ```bash
   export PATH="/usr/local/opt/ruby/bin:$PATH"
   ```

   Then, reload your shell profile:

   ```bash
   source ~/.bash_profile
   # or
   source ~/.zshrc
   ```

   Verify that you're using the new version of Ruby:

   ```bash
   ruby -v
   ```

   Then, try installing the gem again:

   ```bash
   gem install travis
   ```

2. **Install Ruby development headers**: If you're using a system package manager like `apt` or `yum`, you can install the Ruby development headers using the following command:

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install ruby-dev
   # or
   sudo yum install ruby-devel
   ```

   Then, try installing the gem again.

3. **Check your compiler**: The error message also suggests that there might be an issue with your compiler. Make sure you have the necessary build tools installed. On macOS, you can do this by installing Xcode Command Line Tools:

   ```bash
   xcode-select --install
   ```

   Then, try installing the gem again.

Remember to replace the commands with the appropriate ones for your shell and package manager. If none of these solutions work, please provide more details about your environment (like your operating system, Ruby version, etc.) so I can give a more specific solution.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the compiler cannot find the `ruby/config.h` file. This is a common issue when the Ruby development headers are not installed or not found in the expected location.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Check your Ruby installation**: Make sure you have a full Ruby development environment installed. If you installed Ruby with Homebrew, you can reinstall it with `brew reinstall ruby`.

2. **Install Xcode Command Line Tools**: If you're on a Mac, make sure you have the Xcode Command Line Tools installed, which include necessary development headers. You can install it with `xcode-select --install`.

3. **Check the location of your Ruby headers**: The error message indicates that the compiler is looking for headers in `/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk/System/Library/Frameworks/Ruby.framework/Versions/2.3/usr/include/ruby-2.3.0/`. You should check if the headers are actually there. If not, you might need to create a symlink to the correct location.

4. **Use RVM or rbenv**: These version management tools can help isolate your Ruby environment and might help avoid such issues. If you're not already using one of them, it might be worth a try.

5. **Check your `PKG_CONFIG_PATH`**: The `libffi` package uses pkg-config to find its dependencies, and the `PKG_CONFIG_PATH` environment variable is used to specify additional directories to search. Make sure it includes the directory where `libffi.pc` is located.

If none of these solutions work, please provide more information about your environment (OS version, Ruby version, how Ruby was installed, etc.) to help diagnose the issue.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is due to the fact that the compiler is unable to find the `ruby/config.h` file. This is a common issue when the Ruby development headers are not installed or not found in the expected location by the compiler.

Here are a few steps you can try:

1. **Check your Ruby version**: Make sure you have a Ruby version installed that is compatible with the gem you're trying to install. You can check your Ruby version by running `ruby -v` in your terminal.

2. **Install Ruby development headers**: If you installed Ruby using a package manager like Homebrew, you can install the Ruby development headers by reinstalling Ruby with the `--with-openssl-dir` flag. Here's how you can do it:

    ```bash
    brew reinstall ruby --with-openssl-dir=/usr/local/opt/openssl
    ```

    If you installed Ruby using RVM or rbenv, the development headers should have been installed automatically. If not, you might need to reinstall Ruby using RVM or rbenv.

3. **Specify the path to the Ruby headers**: If the Ruby headers are installed but the compiler can't find them, you can specify the path to the headers using the `CFLAGS` environment variable. Here's how you can do it:

    ```bash
    export CFLAGS="-I /path/to/ruby/headers"
    ```

    Replace `/path/to/ruby/headers` with the actual path to the Ruby headers on your system.

4. **Update your system**: Sometimes, these kinds of issues can be resolved by updating your system and the installed packages. If you're using macOS, you can do this by running `brew update && brew upgrade`.

5. **Reinstall libffi**: The error message also mentions `libffi`, which is a library for calling C code from higher-level languages. You can try reinstalling `libffi` using Homebrew:

    ```bash
    brew reinstall libffi
    ```

    After reinstalling `libffi`, you might need to specify the path to the `libffi` headers using the `PKG_CONFIG_PATH` environment variable:

    ```bash
    export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/opt/libffi/lib/pkgconfig"
    ```

After trying these steps, try to install the `travis` gem again:

```bash
gem install travis
```

If you're still having issues, please provide more information about your system (e.g., the macOS version, the Ruby version, how Ruby was installed, etc.) so I can provide more specific advice.

--------
