
# Post \#65000467 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65000467/)

## libffi.so.6: cannot open shared object file in rails

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 7446 (475/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-470

Created at 2020-11-25 07:50:59

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ubuntu` `package`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm newbie in rails and I'm working on Ubuntu 19.10 yesterday I decide to upgrade my OS to new version every things is going fine after upgrading finished after t i start to use my computer to develop that found any rails command not works and showed me this error
```
in `require': libffi.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory - /home/ace/.rbenv/versions/2.7.1/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/ffi-1.13.1/lib/ffi_c.so (LoadError)
```

I found people with same issues but none of them have problem in rails and any of them is useful for me .
I think the problem is about libffi.so.6 package because ffi-1.13.1 is installed on my OS


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is indicating that the ffi gem is trying to load the shared library libffi.so.6, but it cannot find it. This is likely because the libffi library was updated during your OS upgrade and the version that ffi is looking for is no longer available.

Here are the steps you can follow to resolve this issue:

1. First, you need to find out which version of libffi is currently installed on your system. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
find /usr -name 'libffi.so*'
```

This will search your /usr directory for any files that start with 'libffi.so' and print their paths. Look for the highest version number.

2. Once you know which version of libffi you have, you can create a symbolic link to libffi.so.6. For example, if you have libffi.so.7, you would run:

```bash
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libffi.so.7 /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libffi.so.6
```

This command creates a symbolic link (think of it as a shortcut) from libffi.so.6 (the file ffi is trying to load) to libffi.so.7 (the file that actually exists on your system).

3. After creating the symbolic link, try running your Rails command again. It should now be able to find libffi.so.6 and work as expected.

Please note that this is a workaround and not a long-term solution. The ffi gem should ideally be updated to work with the latest version of libffi. You might want to look into updating the gem or finding an alternative if this continues to be a problem.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is indicating that the ffi gem is unable to find the libffi.so.6 library. This is likely because the upgrade to your OS included an upgrade to libffi, which may have removed or replaced the version the ffi gem was expecting.

Here are some steps to resolve this issue:

1. Check the installed version of libffi:

```bash
dpkg -l | grep libffi
```

If libffi.so.6 is not listed, it means that it's not installed on your system.

2. If libffi.so.6 is not installed, you can try to install it with:

```bash
sudo apt-get install libffi6
```

3. If the above command doesn't work or libffi.so.6 is already installed, you may need to reinstall the ffi gem. First, uninstall the ffi gem:

```bash
gem uninstall ffi
```

Then reinstall it:

```bash
gem install ffi
```

4. If the issue persists, it may be due to the version of Ruby you're using. You can try updating Ruby to the latest version with rbenv:

```bash
rbenv install 2.7.2
rbenv global 2.7.2
```

Then reinstall the ffi gem:

```bash
gem install ffi
```

5. If none of the above solutions work, you may need to create a symbolic link to the libffi.so.6 file. First, find the location of the file with:

```bash
locate libffi.so
```

Then create a symbolic link to it in /usr/lib:

```bash
sudo ln -s /path/to/your/libffi.so.6 /usr/lib
```

Replace "/path/to/your/libffi.so.6" with the actual path to the file.

Remember to restart your terminal or source your bashrc/zshrc file to make sure the changes take effect. If you're still having issues after trying these steps, please let me know!

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is indicating that the ffi gem is unable to find the libffi.so.6 library. This is likely because the upgrade to your OS included an upgrade to libffi, which incremented the version number of the shared library, and the ffi gem is still looking for the old version.

You can check the version of libffi that you have installed by running:

```bash
find /usr -name 'libffi.so*'
```

If you see libffi.so.7 (or a higher version), but not libffi.so.6, that's the problem.

There are a few ways you can resolve this issue:

1. **Install an older version of libffi that includes libffi.so.6.** This might not be the best solution, as it could potentially cause conflicts with other software that expects the newer version.

2. **Create a symbolic link from libffi.so.6 to the version you have.** This is a bit of a hack, and it might not work if the ABI has changed between versions, but it's worth a try. You can do this with a command like:

```bash
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libffi.so.7 /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libffi.so.6
```

3. **Reinstall the ffi gem.** This is probably the best solution. The ffi gem includes a C extension that links against libffi.so.6 at install time. If you reinstall the gem, it should link against the correct version. You can do this with:

```bash
gem uninstall ffi
gem install ffi
```

If you're using bundler, you might need to run `bundle install` again after reinstalling the ffi gem.

--------
