
# Post \#71332602 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71332602/)

## Upgrading to Ruby 3.1 causes Psych::DisallowedClass exception when using YAML.load_file

**Vote**: 33 (185/702) **Views**: 12127 (393/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-482

Created at 2022-03-03 05:44:50

Tags: `ruby` `yaml` `activesupport`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby` `yaml`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When upgrading to ruby 3.1, I am seeing the following sort error message when using `YAML.load_file some_file_name`
```
Psych::DisallowedClass:
   Tried to load unspecified class: Matrix
```

Other load statements cause similar errors but cite different unspecified classes e.g. OpenStruct.  It appears that the latest version of YAML only loads classes from a permitted white list, so it is necessary to use a permitted_class keyword to allow other classes. I have tried
```
hsh = YAML.load_file some_file_name, permitted_classes: [Matrix, OpenStruct]
```

but this gives the error
```
Psych::DisallowedClass:
   Tried to load unspecified class: Symbol
```

how do I fix this?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're seeing is due to a change in Ruby 3.0 that makes YAML loading safer by default. It now only allows loading of basic Ruby objects unless you specify otherwise. This is to prevent potential security issues with loading arbitrary objects from YAML.

The `permitted_classes` option allows you to specify additional classes that can be loaded. However, you're seeing an error with `Symbol` because it's not in the list of permitted classes.

You can add `Symbol` to the list of permitted classes like this:

```ruby
hsh = YAML.load_file(some_file_name, permitted_classes: [Matrix, OpenStruct, Symbol])
```

If you have other classes that need to be loaded, you can add them to the list as well. If you're not sure what classes need to be loaded, you might need to add them one at a time as you encounter errors.

However, be aware that allowing arbitrary classes to be loaded from YAML can be a security risk. Only add classes to the `permitted_classes` list if you trust the source of the YAML file and you're sure that loading those classes won't cause any issues.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is due to a security feature introduced in Ruby 3.0's Psych library (which is used for YAML parsing) to prevent deserialization of arbitrary classes, which can be a security risk.

The `permitted_classes` option allows you to specify an array of classes that are allowed to be deserialized. If you're seeing an error with `Symbol`, it means that your YAML file contains symbols, and you need to add `Symbol` to your list of permitted classes.

Here's how you can do it:

```ruby
hsh = YAML.load_file(some_file_name, permitted_classes: [Matrix, OpenStruct, Symbol])
```

If you continue to see errors about other classes, you'll need to add those to the `permitted_classes` array as well. 

However, be aware that permitting classes for deserialization can be a security risk if the YAML data comes from an untrusted source, as it could potentially be used to instantiate arbitrary classes with arbitrary data.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're seeing is due to a security feature introduced in Ruby 3.0 to prevent potential security vulnerabilities when deserializing objects from YAML. By default, only a few safe classes are allowed to be deserialized.

To fix this, you need to specify all the classes that your YAML file might contain in the `permitted_classes` option. In your case, it seems like you also have `Symbol` objects in your YAML file, so you need to add `Symbol` to the `permitted_classes` array.

Here's how you can do it:

```ruby
hsh = YAML.load_file(some_file_name, permitted_classes: [Matrix, OpenStruct, Symbol])
```

If you encounter more `Psych::DisallowedClass` errors, you'll need to add those classes to the `permitted_classes` array as well.

However, be aware that allowing arbitrary classes to be deserialized can be a security risk if the YAML data comes from an untrusted source, as it could potentially be used to execute arbitrary code. So, only add classes to the `permitted_classes` array that you trust and expect to be in the YAML data.

--------
