
# Post \#59350892 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59350892/)

## Installing ruby-2.1.2: Cannot load such file -- openssl (LoadError)

**Vote**: 18 (275/702) **Views**: 15639 (349/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-479

Created at 2019-12-16 05:18:54

Tags: `ruby` `macos` `openssl` `rvm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Getting few errors while installing ruby-2.1.2 using rvm. I am new to ruby and hence need assistance. Please let me know 

Installation log and other relevant information here: [log](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/RTXNP2D25K/)

From the log provided in problem description, I have ruby 2.1.2 installed in the system. However, getting error when tried listing gems with `gem list` due to installation errors.After changing to 2.1.2 i.e., `rvm use 2.1.2` and executing `ruby -r openssl -e 'puts OpensSSL::OPENSSL_VERSION'` gives this error: 

> /Users/praveenk.k/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.2/lib/ruby/site_ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:54:in require': cannot load such file -- openssl (LoadError) from /Users/praveenk.k/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.2/lib/ruby/site_ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:54:in require'


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing indicates that Ruby is unable to load the OpenSSL library. This is a common issue when installing Ruby with RVM, and it's usually due to one of two reasons:

1. OpenSSL is not installed on your system.
2. Ruby was not compiled with OpenSSL support.

Here's how you can troubleshoot and fix this issue:

1. **Check if OpenSSL is installed**: You can do this by running `openssl version` in your terminal. If OpenSSL is not installed, you can install it using Homebrew with the command `brew install openssl`.

2. **Reinstall Ruby with OpenSSL support**: If OpenSSL is installed but you're still seeing the error, it's likely that Ruby was not compiled with OpenSSL support. You can fix this by reinstalling Ruby with RVM and explicitly telling it to use OpenSSL. Here's how you can do that:

   First, remove the existing Ruby installation with `rvm remove 2.1.2`.

   Then, reinstall Ruby with OpenSSL support using the command `rvm install 2.1.2 --with-openssl-dir=/usr/local/opt/openssl`. This tells RVM to use the OpenSSL installed by Homebrew.

After doing this, try running your `ruby -r openssl -e 'puts OpenSSL::OPENSSL_VERSION'` command again. If everything went well, you should see the OpenSSL version printed out, and you should be able to list your gems with `gem list` without any errors.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing indicates that Ruby is unable to load the OpenSSL library. This is a common issue when installing Ruby with RVM, especially on macOS, because OpenSSL is not included by default in the macOS system.

Here are the steps to resolve this issue:

1. First, you need to install OpenSSL. If you have Homebrew installed, you can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

    ```bash
    brew install openssl
    ```

2. Once OpenSSL is installed, you need to reinstall Ruby with RVM, but this time you need to tell RVM where to find the OpenSSL library. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

    ```bash
    rvm reinstall 2.1.2 --with-openssl-dir=`brew --prefix openssl`
    ```

    This command tells RVM to reinstall Ruby version 2.1.2, and it specifies the location of the OpenSSL library by using the `brew --prefix openssl` command, which outputs the directory where Homebrew installed OpenSSL.

3. After Ruby has been reinstalled, you should be able to use OpenSSL with Ruby. You can test this by running the following command in your terminal:

    ```bash
    ruby -ropenssl -e 'puts OpenSSL::OPENSSL_VERSION'
    ```

    If everything is working correctly, this command should output the version of OpenSSL that Ruby is using.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing indicates that Ruby is unable to load the OpenSSL library. This is likely because Ruby was not correctly linked to OpenSSL when it was installed.

Here are the steps you can follow to resolve this issue:

1. First, you need to install the OpenSSL package. If you're using a Mac, you can do this with Homebrew:

   ```
   brew install openssl
   ```

   If you're using Ubuntu, you can use apt-get:

   ```
   sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
   ```

2. Once OpenSSL is installed, you need to reinstall Ruby with RVM and specify the path to OpenSSL. If you installed OpenSSL with Homebrew, the command would look like this:

   ```
   rvm reinstall 2.1.2 --with-openssl-dir=`brew --prefix openssl`
   ```

   If you installed OpenSSL with apt-get, the command would look like this:

   ```
   rvm reinstall 2.1.2 --with-openssl-dir=/usr/include/openssl
   ```

3. After Ruby is reinstalled, you should be able to use OpenSSL without any issues. You can verify this by running the command you provided:

   ```
   ruby -r openssl -e 'puts OpenSSL::OPENSSL_VERSION'
   ```

   If everything is working correctly, this command should print the version of OpenSSL that Ruby is using.

Please try these steps and let me know if you have any issues.

--------
