
# Post \#56242664 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56242664/)

## How to require custom JS files in Rails 6

**Vote**: 27 (213/702) **Views**: 32710 (219/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-483

Created at 2019-05-21 16:26:34

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby-on-rails-6`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm currently trying Rails 6.0.0.rc1 which seems to have moved the default `javascript` folder from `app/assets/javascript` to `app/javascript`. The `application.js` file is now located in `app/javascript/packs`. Now, I want to add a couple of js files, but for some reason they don't get imported and I can't find any documentation on how this can be done in Rails 6. I tried a couple of things:


1. Create a new folder custom_js under app/javascript/packs, putting all my js files there and then add a require "custom_js" to application.js.
2. Copy all my js files under app/javascript/channels (which should be included by default, since application.js has require("channels")).
3. Adding require_tree . to application.js, which was the previous approach.



How can I load my own js files inside a Rails 6 application?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In Rails 6, you can import your own JavaScript files by using the `import` statement in your `application.js` file. Here's an example:

1. Create a new folder under `app/javascript` called `custom_js`.
2. Add your JavaScript files to the `custom_js` folder.
3. In `application.js`, add the following line to import your JavaScript files:

```
import '../custom_js/your_file_name.js';
```

Make sure to replace `your_file_name.js` with the actual name of your JavaScript file.

You can also use the `require` statement to import your JavaScript files:

```
require('../custom_js/your_file_name.js');
```

After importing your JavaScript files, you can use them in your Rails application.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In Rails 6, you can load your own JavaScript files by using the `javascript_pack_tag` helper method in your layout file. Here's how you can do it:

1. Create a new folder under `app/javascript` for your custom JavaScript files. For example, you can create a folder called `custom`.

2. Create a new JavaScript file in your custom folder. For example, you can create a file called `custom.js`.

3. In your `application.js` file located in `app/javascript/packs`, add the following line to require your custom JavaScript file:

   ```
   require("custom/custom")
   ```

4. In your layout file (e.g. `application.html.erb`), add the following line to load your custom JavaScript file:

   ```
   <%= javascript_pack_tag 'custom' %>
   ```

   This will include your custom JavaScript file in the HTML document.

5. Restart your Rails server and your custom JavaScript file should now be loaded.

Note that the `javascript_pack_tag` helper method will automatically include the JavaScript file located in `app/javascript/packs` with the same name as the argument passed to the method. In this case, the argument is `'custom'`, so it will include the file `custom.js` located in `app/javascript/packs`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In Rails 6, you can load your own JavaScript files by using the `javascript_pack_tag` helper method in your layout file. Here's how you can do it:

1. Create a new folder for your JavaScript files under `app/javascript`. For example, you can create a folder called `custom`.

2. Create a new JavaScript file inside the folder you just created. For example, you can create a file called `custom.js` inside `app/javascript/custom`.

3. In your layout file (usually `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb`), add the following line inside the `head` tag:

   ```
   <%= javascript_pack_tag 'custom' %>
   ```

   This will include the `custom.js` file in your application.

4. Restart your Rails server and refresh your page. Your JavaScript file should now be loaded.

Note that the `javascript_pack_tag` method assumes that your JavaScript file is located in `app/javascript/packs`. If you want to load a file from a different folder, you can specify the path relative to `app/javascript`:

```
<%= javascript_pack_tag 'path/to/custom' %>
```

--------
