
# Post \#65000467 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65000467/)

## libffi.so.6: cannot open shared object file in rails

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 7446 (475/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-470

Created at 2020-11-25 07:50:59

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ubuntu` `package`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm newbie in rails and I'm working on Ubuntu 19.10 yesterday I decide to upgrade my OS to new version every things is going fine after upgrading finished after t i start to use my computer to develop that found any rails command not works and showed me this error
```
in `require': libffi.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory - /home/ace/.rbenv/versions/2.7.1/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/ffi-1.13.1/lib/ffi_c.so (LoadError)
```

I found people with same issues but none of them have problem in rails and any of them is useful for me .
I think the problem is about libffi.so.6 package because ffi-1.13.1 is installed on my OS


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the error message is indicating that the `libffi.so.6` library is missing. You can try installing it by running the following command in your terminal:

```
sudo apt-get install libffi6
```

After installing the library, try running your Rails command again and see if the issue is resolved. If not, you may need to reinstall the `ffi` gem by running:

```
gem uninstall ffi
gem install ffi
```

This should rebuild the `ffi` gem with the newly installed `libffi.so.6` library.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like the error message is indicating that the `libffi.so.6` shared library file is missing. This library is required by the `ffi` gem, which is used by Rails and other Ruby libraries.

To fix this issue, you can try installing the `libffi6` package using the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install libffi6
```

If the package is already installed, you can try reinstalling it:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall libffi6
```

Once the package is installed or reinstalled, try running your Rails command again and see if the issue is resolved.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the error is related to the libffi library. You can try installing the libffi-dev package using the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install libffi-dev
```

This should install the required library and resolve the issue. If the issue persists, you can try reinstalling the ffi gem using the following command:

```
gem uninstall ffi
gem install ffi
```

This should reinstall the ffi gem and link it to the newly installed libffi library.

--------
