
# Post \#56242664 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56242664/)

## How to require custom JS files in Rails 6

**Vote**: 27 (213/702) **Views**: 32710 (219/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-483

Created at 2019-05-21 16:26:34

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby-on-rails-6`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm currently trying Rails 6.0.0.rc1 which seems to have moved the default `javascript` folder from `app/assets/javascript` to `app/javascript`. The `application.js` file is now located in `app/javascript/packs`. Now, I want to add a couple of js files, but for some reason they don't get imported and I can't find any documentation on how this can be done in Rails 6. I tried a couple of things:


1. Create a new folder custom_js under app/javascript/packs, putting all my js files there and then add a require "custom_js" to application.js.
2. Copy all my js files under app/javascript/channels (which should be included by default, since application.js has require("channels")).
3. Adding require_tree . to application.js, which was the previous approach.



How can I load my own js files inside a Rails 6 application?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Rails 6, the JavaScript asset pipeline has been replaced with Webpacker. Here's how you can add your custom JavaScript files:

1. Create a new folder under `app/javascript`, let's say `app/javascript/custom` and put your JavaScript files there.

2. Then, you need to import these files in your `application.js` pack. You can do this by adding the following line to your `app/javascript/packs/application.js`:

```javascript
import "../custom/your_file.js";
```

Replace `your_file.js` with the name of your JavaScript file. If you have multiple files, you can add multiple import statements.

3. Finally, make sure that your `application.js` pack is included in your layout. You can do this by adding the following line to your layout (usually `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb`):

```erb
<%= javascript_pack_tag 'application', 'data-turbolinks-track': 'reload' %>
```

This should include your custom JavaScript files in your Rails 6 application.

Please note that if you're using modules or some syntax that older browsers don't understand in your JavaScript files, you might need to configure Babel to transpile your JavaScript. This is usually done automatically by Webpacker, but you might need to adjust the configuration depending on your needs.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Rails 6, the JavaScript asset pipeline has been replaced with Webpacker. This means that the way you include JavaScript files has changed.

Here's how you can include your custom JavaScript files:

1. Create a new folder under `app/javascript/packs`, let's say `custom_js`, and put your JavaScript files there.

2. In your `application.js` file, you can import your custom JavaScript files like this:

```javascript
import './custom_js/my_file.js'
```

Replace `my_file.js` with the name of your JavaScript file. If you have multiple files, you can import them one by one.

3. In your layout file (usually `application.html.erb`), make sure you have this line in your head tag:

```html
<%= javascript_pack_tag 'application', 'data-turbolinks-track': 'reload' %>
```

This line will include the `application.js` file and all the files you imported in it.

4. Restart your Rails server to make sure the changes take effect.

Remember that with Webpacker, you're working with modules, so if you want to make a function available globally (like for use in inline JavaScript), you'll need to attach it to the `window` object. For example:

```javascript
window.myFunction = function() {
  // your code here
}
```

This is a bit different from the old asset pipeline where all JavaScript files were concatenated into one file and all functions were globally available.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Rails 6, the default JavaScript compiler is webpacker. The `app/javascript/packs` directory is where webpacker looks for entry point files. These are the files webpacker compiles directly. 

Here is how you can add your custom JavaScript files:

1. Create a new directory `custom_js` under `app/javascript` (not under `app/javascript/packs`), and put your JavaScript files there.

2. Then, in your `app/javascript/packs/application.js` file, you can import your custom JavaScript files like this:

```javascript
import 'custom_js/my_file.js'
```

Replace `my_file.js` with the actual name of your JavaScript file. 

3. If you have multiple JavaScript files in the `custom_js` directory and you want to include all of them, you can create an `index.js` file in the `custom_js` directory that imports all the other JavaScript files:

```javascript
// app/javascript/custom_js/index.js
import './file1.js'
import './file2.js'
// ... import the rest of your files
```

Then, in your `application.js` file, you just need to import this `index.js` file:

```javascript
// app/javascript/packs/application.js
import 'custom_js'
```

4. Lastly, make sure that your `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb` (or the specific layout file you are using) has the following line in the head tag:

```erb
<%= javascript_pack_tag 'application', 'data-turbolinks-track': 'reload' %>
```

This line ensures that the compiled JavaScript is included in your HTML.

Remember, with webpacker, you don't use the `require` keyword to include JavaScript files, you use the `import` keyword.

--------
