
# Post \#65834575 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65834575/)

## How to enable TLS for Redis 6 on Sidekiq?

**Vote**: 25 (228/702) **Views**: 7486 (474/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-485

Created at 2021-01-21 19:36:13

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby` `ssl` `heroku` `redis`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


## Problem


On my Ruby on Rails app, I keep getting the error below for the [Heroku Redis](https://elements.heroku.com/addons/heroku-redis) Premium 0 add-on:
> OpenSSL::SSL::SSLError: SSL_connect returned=1 errno=0 state=error: certificate verify failed (self signed certificate in certificate chain)
Heroku Redis [documentation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-redis#create-a-new-instance) mentions that I need to enable TLS in my Redis client's configuration in order to connect to a Redis 6 database. To achive this, I have read SSL/TLS Support documentation on [redis-rb](https://github.com/redis/redis-rb#ssltls-support). My understanding from it is; I need to assign `ca_file`, `cert` and `key` for `Redis.new#ssl_params`.  how to set these for Redis or through Sidekiq on Heroku?

## Updates


Update 3: Heroku support provided an answer which solved the problem.
Update 2: Created Heroku support ticket and waiting response.
Update 1: [Asked](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/issues/4786) on Sidekiq's Github issues and was adviced go write Heroku support. Will update this question, when I do get an answer.

---



### Related Info


I have verified the app does work when the add-on is either one of the below:
- - 
Versions:
- - - - - - 
Some links that helped me to narrow down the issue:
- [https://bibwild.wordpress.com/2020/11/24/are-you-talking-to-heroku-redis-in-cleartext-or-ssl/](https://bibwild.wordpress.com/2020/11/24/are-you-talking-to-heroku-redis-in-cleartext-or-ssl/)- [https://mislav.net/2013/07/ruby-openssl/](https://mislav.net/2013/07/ruby-openssl/)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing indicates that the SSL certificate verification failed because a self-signed certificate was found in the certificate chain. This usually happens when the client is unable to verify the server's SSL certificate.

To resolve this issue, you need to configure your Redis client to use SSL/TLS when connecting to the Heroku Redis server. Here's how you can do this:

1. First, you need to get the SSL certificate for your Heroku Redis server. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
heroku certs:info -a your-app-name
```

This will display the SSL certificate information for your Heroku app. Copy the contents of the `Certificate Chain` field.

2. Next, create a new file in your Rails app's `config` directory and paste the certificate chain into this file. Let's call this file `redis.crt`.

3. Now you need to configure your Redis client to use this certificate when connecting to the Redis server. You can do this by setting the `ssl_params` option in your Redis client's configuration. Here's an example:

```ruby
redis = Redis.new(url: ENV['REDIS_URL'], ssl_params: { ca_file: Rails.root.join('config', 'redis.crt').to_s })
```

In this example, `ENV['REDIS_URL']` is the URL of your Heroku Redis server, which you can get from your Heroku app's settings.

4. If you're using Sidekiq, you can configure it to use this Redis client by adding the following code to your `config/initializers/sidekiq.rb` file:

```ruby
Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
  config.redis = { url: ENV['REDIS_URL'], ssl_params: { ca_file: Rails.root.join('config', 'redis.crt').to_s } }
end

Sidekiq.configure_client do |config|
  config.redis = { url: ENV['REDIS_URL'], ssl_params: { ca_file: Rails.root.join('config', 'redis.crt').to_s } }
end
```

This will configure both the Sidekiq server and client to use the Redis client you've configured.

5. Finally, commit your changes and push them to Heroku:

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Configure Redis client to use SSL"
git push heroku master
```

After doing this, your Redis client should be able to connect to the Heroku Redis server using SSL/TLS.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're seeing is due to the fact that your Redis client is trying to connect to the Redis server over SSL/TLS, but the server's SSL certificate is self-signed. This means that the certificate was not issued by a trusted certificate authority, so the client cannot verify the server's identity.

To solve this issue, you need to configure your Redis client to trust the server's self-signed certificate. Here's how you can do this:

1. First, you need to obtain the server's SSL certificate. You can do this by connecting to the server using the `openssl` command-line tool:

    ```bash
    openssl s_client -connect YOUR_REDIS_URL:REDIS_PORT
    ```

    This will print out a lot of information about the server's SSL configuration. Look for the section that begins with `-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` and ends with `-----END CERTIFICATE-----`. This is the server's SSL certificate. Copy this section into a new file, and save it as `redis.crt`.

2. Next, you need to configure your Redis client to trust this certificate. According to the redis-rb documentation, you can do this by setting the `ssl_params` option when creating a new Redis client:

    ```ruby
    redis = Redis.new(url: YOUR_REDIS_URL, ssl_params: { ca_file: 'path/to/redis.crt' })
    ```

    Replace `'path/to/redis.crt'` with the actual path to the `redis.crt` file you created in step 1.

3. If you're using Sidekiq, you can configure it to use this Redis client by setting the `REDIS_PROVIDER` environment variable to the URL of your Redis server:

    ```bash
    export REDIS_PROVIDER=YOUR_REDIS_URL
    ```

    Then, in your Sidekiq configuration file, you can create a new Redis client with the same `ssl_params` option:

    ```ruby
    Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
      config.redis = { url: ENV['REDIS_PROVIDER'], ssl_params: { ca_file: 'path/to/redis.crt' } }
    end

    Sidekiq.configure_client do |config|
      config.redis = { url: ENV['REDIS_PROVIDER'], ssl_params: { ca_file: 'path/to/redis.crt' } }
    end
    ```

Please note that this solution assumes that you have access to the filesystem on your Heroku dynos, which is not the case by default. If you don't have access to the filesystem, you might need to store the `redis.crt` file somewhere else (like in an environment variable or in your database), and then read it into your application at runtime.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is related to SSL certificate verification. When you're trying to connect to Heroku Redis with SSL, the client needs to verify the server's SSL certificate. If the certificate is self-signed or not trusted, you'll see this error.

To resolve this issue, you need to configure your Redis client to use SSL and trust the server's certificate. Here's how you can do this in Ruby with the redis-rb gem:

```ruby
uri = URI.parse(ENV["REDIS_URL"])
redis = Redis.new(:host => uri.host, :port => uri.port, :password => uri.password, :ssl => :true, :ssl_params => { verify_mode: OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_NONE })
```

In this code, we're parsing the `REDIS_URL` environment variable provided by Heroku to get the host, port, and password for the Redis server. We're then creating a new Redis client with these details and enabling SSL.

The `ssl_params` option is used to configure the SSL context. In this case, we're setting `verify_mode` to `OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_NONE` to disable certificate verification. This should resolve the error you're seeing.

However, please note that disabling certificate verification can make your application vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. It's generally recommended to use `OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_PEER` and provide the path to a trusted certificate file with the `ca_file` option:

```ruby
redis = Redis.new(:host => uri.host, :port => uri.port, :password => uri.password, :ssl => :true, :ssl_params => { verify_mode: OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_PEER, ca_file: '/path/to/ca_file' })
```

In the case of Heroku, the trusted certificate file is typically provided by the platform and can be found in the `/usr/lib/ssl/certs` directory.

For Sidekiq, you can configure the Redis client in the Sidekiq configuration file:

```ruby
Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
  config.redis = { url: ENV['REDIS_URL'], ssl_params: { verify_mode: OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_NONE } }
end

Sidekiq.configure_client do |config|
  config.redis = { url: ENV['REDIS_URL'], ssl_params: { verify_mode: OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_NONE } }
end
```

Again, it's recommended to use `OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_PEER` and provide the path to a trusted certificate file if possible.

--------
