
# Post \#59350892 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59350892/)

## Installing ruby-2.1.2: Cannot load such file -- openssl (LoadError)

**Vote**: 18 (275/702) **Views**: 15639 (349/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-479

Created at 2019-12-16 05:18:54

Tags: `ruby` `macos` `openssl` `rvm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Getting few errors while installing ruby-2.1.2 using rvm. I am new to ruby and hence need assistance. Please let me know 

Installation log and other relevant information here: [log](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/RTXNP2D25K/)

From the log provided in problem description, I have ruby 2.1.2 installed in the system. However, getting error when tried listing gems with `gem list` due to installation errors.After changing to 2.1.2 i.e., `rvm use 2.1.2` and executing `ruby -r openssl -e 'puts OpensSSL::OPENSSL_VERSION'` gives this error: 

> /Users/praveenk.k/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.2/lib/ruby/site_ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:54:in require': cannot load such file -- openssl (LoadError) from /Users/praveenk.k/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.1.2/lib/ruby/site_ruby/2.1.0/rubygems/core_ext/kernel_require.rb:54:in require'


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there is an issue with the OpenSSL library. You can try installing OpenSSL using Homebrew by running the following command:

```
brew install openssl
```

After installing OpenSSL, try reinstalling Ruby 2.1.2 using RVM:

```
rvm reinstall 2.1.2 --with-openssl-dir=`brew --prefix openssl`
```

This should install Ruby 2.1.2 with the correct OpenSSL library. Once the installation is complete, try running `gem list` and `ruby -r openssl -e 'puts OpensSSL::OPENSSL_VERSION'` again to see if the errors have been resolved.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Based on the log provided, it seems like there are some missing dependencies that are causing the installation errors. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Make sure you have all the necessary dependencies installed on your system. You can check the requirements for Ruby 2.1.2 on the official Ruby website.

2. Try installing Ruby 2.1.2 using a different version manager like rbenv or asdf. Sometimes, different version managers work better for different systems.

3. If you're still having issues, try installing an older version of Ruby like 2.0.0 or 1.9.3. These versions may have fewer dependencies and could be easier to install.

Regarding the error you're getting when trying to list gems, it seems like the OpenSSL library is not installed on your system. You can try installing it using a package manager like Homebrew (if you're on a Mac) or apt-get (if you're on Ubuntu). Once you have OpenSSL installed, try running `gem list` again and see if the error persists.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Based on the error message, it seems like the OpenSSL library is not installed on your system. You can try installing it using the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
```

Once the installation is complete, try running the command again:

```
ruby -r openssl -e 'puts OpenSSL::OPENSSL_VERSION'
```

If the command runs successfully, you should see the version of OpenSSL installed on your system.

Regarding the gem installation errors, it's hard to say without more information. Can you provide the error message you are seeing when running `gem list`?

--------
