
# Post \#58339607 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58339607/)

## Why does Rails fails to boot with "Expected to find a manifest file in `app/assets/config/manifest.js` (Sprockets::Railtie::ManifestNeededError)"?

**Vote**: 76 (82/702) **Views**: 28595 (237/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-481

Created at 2019-10-11 10:45:31

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby-on-rails-5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After `bundle update` my Rails app fails to boot with:

```
Expected to find a manifest file in `app/assets/config/manifest.js` (Sprockets::Railtie::ManifestNeededError)
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

This error is because Sprockets 4 requires you to have a manifest file. The manifest file is used to list the files and assets that you want to precompile in production.

You can fix this issue by creating a new file `app/assets/config/manifest.js` and adding the following lines:

```javascript
//= link_tree ../images
//= link_directory ../stylesheets .css
//= link_directory ../javascripts .js
```

This will include all your images, stylesheets, and JavaScript files in the asset pipeline.

Remember to restart your server after making these changes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

This error is due to Sprockets 4 requiring a manifest file. Sprockets is a Ruby library for compiling and serving web assets. It features declarative dependency management for JavaScript and CSS assets, as well as a powerful preprocessor pipeline that allows you to write assets in languages like CoffeeScript, Sass and SCSS.

To fix this issue, you need to create a new file `app/assets/config/manifest.js` and add the following lines:

```javascript
//= link_tree ../images
//= link_directory ../stylesheets .css
//= link_directory ../javascripts .js
```

This file is used by Sprockets to understand what files need to be compiled and served. The `link_tree` directive includes all files in the specified directory and its subdirectories, while `link_directory` includes all files in the specified directory.

After creating this file, try to boot your Rails app again. It should work fine now.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

This error is due to Sprockets 4 requiring a manifest file. Sprockets uses this file to determine which assets to compile.

You can fix this issue by creating a new file at `app/assets/config/manifest.js` and adding the following lines:

```javascript
//= link_tree ../images
//= link_directory ../javascripts .js
//= link_directory ../stylesheets .css
```

These lines tell Sprockets to include all images, JavaScript files, and CSS files in the asset pipeline.

After adding this file, try to boot your Rails app again. If you still encounter issues, you may need to precompile your assets using the command `rake assets:precompile`.

--------
