
# Post \#65834575 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65834575/)

## How to enable TLS for Redis 6 on Sidekiq?

**Vote**: 25 (228/702) **Views**: 7486 (474/702) 

**Internal ID** \#2-9-485

Created at 2021-01-21 19:36:13

Tags: `ruby-on-rails` `ruby` `ssl` `heroku` `redis`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Back-end`

Language: `ruby` (full parsed tag list: `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


## Problem


On my Ruby on Rails app, I keep getting the error below for the [Heroku Redis](https://elements.heroku.com/addons/heroku-redis) Premium 0 add-on:
> OpenSSL::SSL::SSLError: SSL_connect returned=1 errno=0 state=error: certificate verify failed (self signed certificate in certificate chain)
Heroku Redis [documentation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-redis#create-a-new-instance) mentions that I need to enable TLS in my Redis client's configuration in order to connect to a Redis 6 database. To achive this, I have read SSL/TLS Support documentation on [redis-rb](https://github.com/redis/redis-rb#ssltls-support). My understanding from it is; I need to assign `ca_file`, `cert` and `key` for `Redis.new#ssl_params`.  how to set these for Redis or through Sidekiq on Heroku?

## Updates


Update 3: Heroku support provided an answer which solved the problem.
Update 2: Created Heroku support ticket and waiting response.
Update 1: [Asked](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/issues/4786) on Sidekiq's Github issues and was adviced go write Heroku support. Will update this question, when I do get an answer.

---



### Related Info


I have verified the app does work when the add-on is either one of the below:
- - 
Versions:
- - - - - - 
Some links that helped me to narrow down the issue:
- [https://bibwild.wordpress.com/2020/11/24/are-you-talking-to-heroku-redis-in-cleartext-or-ssl/](https://bibwild.wordpress.com/2020/11/24/are-you-talking-to-heroku-redis-in-cleartext-or-ssl/)- [https://mislav.net/2013/07/ruby-openssl/](https://mislav.net/2013/07/ruby-openssl/)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like you have already done some research on how to enable SSL/TLS support for Redis. To set the `ca_file`, `cert`, and `key` for `Redis.new#ssl_params`, you can use the following code:

```ruby
require 'redis'
require 'redis-namespace'

redis_url = ENV['REDIS_URL']
redis_namespace = ENV['REDIS_NAMESPACE']

redis_options = {
  url: redis_url,
  ssl_params: {
    ca_file: '/path/to/ca_file.pem',
    cert: '/path/to/cert.pem',
    key: '/path/to/key.pem'
  }
}

redis = Redis.new(redis_options)
redis = Redis::Namespace.new(redis_namespace, redis: redis)
```

Make sure to replace `/path/to/ca_file.pem`, `/path/to/cert.pem`, and `/path/to/key.pem` with the actual paths to your SSL/TLS certificate files.

If you are using Sidekiq on Heroku, you can set the SSL/TLS options in your `config/sidekiq.yml` file:

```yaml
:concurrency: 5
:queues:
  - default
:redis:
  url: <%= ENV['REDIS_URL'] %>
  ssl_params:
    ca_file: '/path/to/ca_file.pem'
    cert: '/path/to/cert.pem'
    key: '/path/to/key.pem'
```

Again, replace `/path/to/ca_file.pem`, `/path/to/cert.pem`, and `/path/to/key.pem` with the actual paths to your SSL/TLS certificate files.

If you are still having issues connecting to Heroku Redis with SSL/TLS enabled, I would recommend reaching out to Heroku support for further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like you have already done some research on how to enable TLS for Redis on Heroku. To set the `ca_file`, `cert`, and `key` for `Redis.new#ssl_params`, you can try the following steps:

1. First, you need to obtain the SSL certificate for your Redis instance. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

   ```
   openssl s_client -connect <REDIS_HOST>:<REDIS_PORT> -showcerts
   ```

   Replace `<REDIS_HOST>` and `<REDIS_PORT>` with the hostname and port of your Redis instance. This command will output the SSL certificate chain for your Redis instance.

2. Copy the entire certificate chain and save it to a file, e.g. `redis.crt`.

3. In your Rails app, you can set the `ca_file`, `cert`, and `key` for `Redis.new#ssl_params` like this:

   ```ruby
   redis_url = ENV['REDIS_URL']
   redis_options = {
     ssl_params: {
       ca_file: 'path/to/redis.crt',
       cert: OpenSSL::X509::Certificate.new(File.read('path/to/client.crt')),
       key: OpenSSL::PKey::RSA.new(File.read('path/to/client.key'))
     }
   }
   redis = Redis.new(url: redis_url, **redis_options)
   ```

   Replace `path/to/redis.crt`, `path/to/client.crt`, and `path/to/client.key` with the actual paths to the SSL certificate chain file, client certificate file, and client private key file, respectively.

4. If you are using Sidekiq, you can set the `ca_file`, `cert`, and `key` for Sidekiq's Redis client like this:

   ```ruby
   Sidekiq.configure_server do |config|
     config.redis = {
       url: ENV['REDIS_URL'],
       ssl_params: {
         ca_file: 'path/to/redis.crt',
         cert: OpenSSL::X509::Certificate.new(File.read('path/to/client.crt')),
         key: OpenSSL::PKey::RSA.new(File.read('path/to/client.key'))
       }
     }
   end
   ```

   Replace `path/to/redis.crt`, `path/to/client.crt`, and `path/to/client.key` with the actual paths to the SSL certificate chain file, client certificate file, and client private key file, respectively.

I hope this helps you solve the SSL certificate verification error you are experiencing with Heroku Redis Premium 0 add-on. If you still have issues, you can try reaching out to Heroku support for further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like you have already done some research on how to enable TLS for Redis on Heroku. Based on the documentation you have read, you need to assign `ca_file`, `cert`, and `key` for `Redis.new#ssl_params`. Here's how you can set these parameters for Redis or through Sidekiq on Heroku:

1. For Redis:

You can set the `ssl_params` option when creating a new Redis client instance. Here's an example:

```ruby
redis = Redis.new(url: ENV['REDIS_URL'], ssl_params: {
  ca_file: '/path/to/ca_file.pem',
  cert: '/path/to/cert.pem',
  key: '/path/to/key.pem'
})
```

Make sure to replace the file paths with the actual paths to your certificate and key files.

2. For Sidekiq:

You can set the `REDIS_URL` environment variable to include the `ssl_params` option. Here's an example:

```
REDIS_URL=rediss://:password@hostname:port/0?ssl=true&ssl_ca_cert=/path/to/ca_file.pem&ssl_cert=/path/to/cert.pem&ssl_key=/path/to/key.pem
```

Again, make sure to replace the file paths with the actual paths to your certificate and key files.

If you're still having issues after trying these steps, I would recommend reaching out to Heroku support for further assistance.

--------
