
# Post \#69182818 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69182818/)

## How to listen to the changes and rebuild the widget in flutter using provider packge?

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 2103 (601/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-558

Created at 2021-09-14 18:22:10

Tags: `flutter` `flutter-layout` `flutter-dependencies` `flutter-web` `flutter-animation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

The problem i am facing is,
I am connecting my ui to backend with websocket using subscribe method(graphql client). That means there is a connection between my ui and backend. I am storing the data i got from backend  in the local storage
From the local storage, i am getting that data,
Whenever i receive the data from backend it should be reflected in the ui automatically. For reflecting change in ui, i am using state management provider package.What should i do to make my widget rebuild on listening to the changes i had made using provider package;


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To make your widget rebuild on listening to the changes you made using the provider package, you need to use the `Consumer` widget provided by the package.

Here are the steps you can follow:

1. Wrap your widget with the `Consumer` widget and pass the provider instance as a parameter.

```dart
Consumer<MyProvider>(
  builder: (context, myProvider, child) {
    // Your widget code here
  },
),
```

2. In the `builder` function, access the data from the provider instance and use it to build your widget.

```dart
Consumer<MyProvider>(
  builder: (context, myProvider, child) {
    final data = myProvider.getData();
    return Text(data);
  },
),
```

3. When the data changes in the provider instance, call the `notifyListeners()` method to notify the listeners (in this case, the `Consumer` widget) that the data has changed.

```dart
class MyProvider extends ChangeNotifier {
  String _data;

  String getData() => _data;

  void setData(String data) {
    _data = data;
    notifyListeners();
  }
}
```

4. When you receive new data from the backend, update the data in the provider instance using the `setData()` method.

```dart
myProvider.setData(newData);
```

5. The `Consumer` widget will automatically rebuild your widget when the data changes in the provider instance.

```dart
Consumer<MyProvider>(
  builder: (context, myProvider, child) {
    final data = myProvider.getData();
    return Text(data);
  },
),
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To make your widget rebuild on listening to the changes made using the provider package, you need to use a `Consumer` widget. The `Consumer` widget listens to changes in the state of the provider and rebuilds the widget tree whenever there is a change in the state.

Here's an example of how you can use the `Consumer` widget:

```
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:provider/provider.dart';

class MyWidget extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Consumer<MyProvider>(
      builder: (context, myProvider, child) {
        return Text(myProvider.data);
      },
    );
  }
}
```

In the above example, `MyProvider` is the provider that you are using to manage the state of your application. The `Consumer` widget listens to changes in the `MyProvider` state and rebuilds the `Text` widget whenever there is a change in the state.

To update the state of the provider, you can use the `setState` method of the provider. Here's an example:

```
Provider.of<MyProvider>(context, listen: false).setState('New Data');
```

In the above example, `setState` is a method of the `MyProvider` class that updates the state of the provider with the new data. The `listen: false` parameter is used to prevent the widget from rebuilding when the state is updated.

By using the `Consumer` widget and the `setState` method of the provider, you can easily manage the state of your application and reflect changes in the UI automatically.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To make your widget rebuild on listening to the changes you made using the provider package, you can use the `Consumer` widget provided by the package. 

Here are the steps you can follow:

1. Wrap your widget tree with the `MultiProvider` widget and provide the required providers.

2. In your widget where you want to listen to the changes, use the `Consumer` widget and provide the required provider.

3. Inside the `Consumer` widget, use a builder function that returns the widget tree that needs to be rebuilt when the provider data changes.

4. In your case, you can use the data stored in the local storage as the initial value for the provider.

Here's an example code snippet:

```
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:provider/provider.dart';

void main() {
  runApp(
    MultiProvider(
      providers: [
        ChangeNotifierProvider<MyData>(
          create: (_) => MyData(),
        ),
      ],
      child: MyApp(),
    ),
  );
}

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      home: MyHomePage(),
    );
  }
}

class MyHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      body: Center(
        child: Consumer<MyData>(
          builder: (context, myData, child) {
            return Text(myData.data);
          },
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}

class MyData with ChangeNotifier {
  String _data;

  MyData() {
    // Get data from local storage and set it as initial value
    _data = 'Initial data';
  }

  String get data => _data;

  void updateData(String newData) {
    _data = newData;
    notifyListeners();
  }
}
```

In this example, the `MyData` class is a provider that holds a string value. The `MyHomePage` widget listens to changes in the `MyData` provider using the `Consumer` widget. When the `updateData` method is called on the `MyData` provider, the widget tree inside the `Consumer` widget is rebuilt with the updated data. 

You can modify this example to fit your specific use case.

--------
