
# Post \#55635663 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55635663/)

## Invalid Constant Value using variable as parameter

**Vote**: 132 (38/702) **Views**: 124441 (71/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-578

Created at 2019-04-11 15:02:32

Tags: `dart` `flutter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
var textSize = 10.0;
// or
double textSize = 10.0;
```


into `Text` Widget of Flutter 

```
child: const Text('Calculate Client Fees',
                   style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),)
```


Here it is giving error 

> Invalid Constant Value

Do we have to compulsory use `const` value? Why can not we use `var` or `double`?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Flutter, when you use the `const` keyword before a widget like `Text`, it means you're creating a constant widget, which requires all values inside it to be constant at compile-time. This is why you're getting an "Invalid constant value" error when trying to use a non-constant `var` or `double` for the `fontSize`.

The `const` keyword is used for performance optimization. When Flutter sees a `const` widget, it doesn't need to rebuild that widget in the widget tree when the parent widget changes, because it knows that widget is constant and won't change.

If you want to use a variable for the `fontSize`, you can simply remove the `const` keyword:

```dart
child: Text('Calculate Client Fees',
            style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),)
```

In this case, the `Text` widget will be rebuilt whenever the parent widget changes. If `textSize` is not going to change frequently and you want to optimize for performance, you could consider making it a constant:

```dart
const double textSize = 10.0;
child: const Text('Calculate Client Fees',
                  style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),)
```

This way, the `Text` widget won't need to be rebuilt when the parent widget changes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Flutter, when you use the `const` keyword before a widget like `Text`, it means that widget is a compile-time constant. A compile-time constant value is a value that is determined during the compilation of your program, not at runtime. Therefore, it cannot be changed after it's compiled.

In your case, `textSize` is a runtime value, not a compile-time constant. It's a variable that can be changed at runtime. Therefore, you cannot use it in a `const` widget.

If you want to use `textSize` in your `Text` widget, you should remove the `const` keyword:

```dart
child: Text('Calculate Client Fees',
            style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),)
```

This way, the `Text` widget is not a compile-time constant anymore, and you can use runtime values in it.

The reason why you might want to use `const` widgets is that they can improve the performance of your app. When Flutter sees a `const` widget, it doesn't need to rebuild that widget in every build cycle, because it knows that widget cannot change. But if performance is not a concern in your case, you can use non-const widgets.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Flutter, the `const` keyword is used to represent a compile-time constant. Flutter needs to know the value at compile time, not at runtime. 

When you use `const` before `Text` widget, it means you are creating a constant `Text` widget. All the properties of this widget should also be constant. That's why you're getting an error when you're trying to use a non-constant `textSize` for the `fontSize`.

If you want to use a variable for `fontSize`, you should remove the `const` keyword before `Text` widget. Here's how you can do it:

```dart
var textSize = 10.0;
// or
double textSize = 10.0;

child: Text('Calculate Client Fees',
            style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),)
```

In this case, the `Text` widget is not a constant and it can have non-constant properties.

--------
