
# Post \#67692095 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67692095/)

## Error using path_provider package in flutter

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 4411 (535/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-544

Created at 2021-05-25 16:31:32

Tags: `android` `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to get the application documents directory using the path_provider package in flutter. I am using the hive database and so I need the path.
Here's my code:
```
void main() async {
  final appDocsDir = await getApplicationDocumentsDirectory(); //error is on this line
  Hive.init(appDocsDir.path);
  runApp(MyApp());
}
```

I am getting this error:
```
E/flutter (18811): [ERROR:flutter/lib/ui/ui_dart_state.cc(199)] Unhandled Exception: Null check operator used on a null value
E/flutter (18811): #0      MethodChannel.binaryMessenger (package:flutter/src/services/platform_channel.dart:142:86)
E/flutter (18811): #1      MethodChannel._invokeMethod (package:flutter/src/services/platform_channel.dart:148:36)
E/flutter (18811): #2      MethodChannel.invokeMethod (package:flutter/src/services/platform_channel.dart:331:12)
E/flutter (18811): #3      MethodChannelPathProvider.getApplicationDocumentsPath (package:path_provider_platform_interface/src/method_channel_path_provider.dart:50:10)
E/flutter (18811): #4      getApplicationDocumentsDirectory (package:path_provider/path_provider.dart:138:40)
E/flutter (18811): #5      main (package:my_app/main.dart:9:28)
E/flutter (18811): #6      _runMainZoned.<anonymous closure>.<anonymous closure> (dart:ui/hooks.dart:142:25)
E/flutter (18811): #7      _rootRun (dart:async/zone.dart:1354:13)
E/flutter (18811): #8      _CustomZone.run (dart:async/zone.dart:1258:19)
E/flutter (18811): #9      _runZoned (dart:async/zone.dart:1789:10)
E/flutter (18811): #10     runZonedGuarded (dart:async/zone.dart:1777:12)
E/flutter (18811): #11     _runMainZoned.<anonymous closure> (dart:ui/hooks.dart:138:5)
E/flutter (18811): #12     _delayEntrypointInvocation.<anonymous closure> (dart:isolate-patch/isolate_patch.dart:283:19)
E/flutter (18811): #13     _RawReceivePortImpl._handleMessage (dart:isolate-patch/isolate_patch.dart:184:12)
E/flutter (18811):
```

I am running the app on an android device connected through usb (Using flutter run). I am using the latest version of flutter and the packages.
How can I fix this?
Thank You!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that the `getApplicationDocumentsDirectory()` method is returning null. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The path_provider package is not properly installed or linked in your project. Try running `flutter clean` and then `flutter pub get` to ensure that all dependencies are properly installed.

2. There might be an issue with the device or emulator you are running the app on. Try restarting the device or emulator and then running the app again.

3. There might be a permissions issue with the device or emulator. Make sure that the app has permission to access the device's storage by adding the following line to your AndroidManifest.xml file:

```
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"/>
```

4. There might be an issue with the version of the path_provider package you are using. Try updating to the latest version by running `flutter pub upgrade`.

If none of these solutions work, try using a different package to get the application documents directory, such as the `path_provider_ex` package.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that the `getApplicationDocumentsDirectory()` method is returning null. This could happen if the path_provider package is not properly installed or if there is an issue with the device or emulator you are running the app on.

Here are a few things you can try to fix this issue:

1. Make sure that you have added the path_provider package to your pubspec.yaml file and run `flutter pub get` to install it.

2. Try running the app on a different device or emulator to see if the issue persists.

3. Check if there are any updates available for the path_provider package and update it to the latest version.

4. Try using the `getApplicationSupportDirectory()` method instead of `getApplicationDocumentsDirectory()` to see if it works.

5. If none of the above solutions work, try resetting your flutter environment by running `flutter clean` and then `flutter pub get` to reinstall all the packages.

I hope one of these solutions helps you fix the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message suggests that the `getApplicationDocumentsDirectory()` method is returning a null value. This could be due to a number of reasons, such as a missing permission or a problem with the device.

Here are some steps you can try to fix the issue:

1. Make sure you have added the necessary permissions in the `AndroidManifest.xml` file. You need to add the following lines:

```
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
```

2. Try running the app on a different device or emulator to see if the issue persists.

3. Check if the `path_provider` package is properly installed and up-to-date. You can do this by running `flutter pub outdated` in the terminal.

4. Try using the `getExternalStorageDirectory()` method instead of `getApplicationDocumentsDirectory()` to see if it works. This method returns the external storage directory of the device.

If none of these steps work, you can try using a different package to get the application directory, such as `flutter_file_manager`.

--------
