
# Post \#68251452 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68251452/)

## Android Studio Emulator Tool Windows Not Show

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 2369 (592/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-550

Created at 2021-07-05 06:15:50

Tags: `android` `flutter` `android-studio` `android-virtual-device`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was creating a flutter project, but I want to run my AVD in the android studio window itself, I already select the option in "Settings-> Tools-> Emulator" and check the option that says "Launch in a tool windows" but it still executes me regardless of the emulator.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/qDBpq.png)
I've already done several unsuccessful searches, does anyone have any ideas?
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/AJu6d.png)
---Updated-----
Create a project in normal java and there if that window appears I think it is a problem in flutter or something similar.


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 18

Created at 2021-07-05 07:11:09

------------

Finally! This is the solution [Android Studio 4.1+ emulator sidebar?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67034922/android-studio-4-1-emulator-sidebar)
Go to File->Project Structure->Modules and add Android Framework and Apply.
Automatically displays Emulator Menu in Right Panel!


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 13

Created at 2021-08-04 04:12:49

------------

Try `File`-> `Project Structure`-> `Modules` and add `Android` and `Apply`.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 2

Created at 2021-07-05 06:28:07

------------

In [this](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator) doc.
- 
In Your case:

1. If the Emulator window didn't automatically appear, open it by clicking View > Tool Windows > Emulator.
2. Start your virtual device using the AVD Manager or by targeting it when running your app.



- 
It directly forces start your emulator.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 0

Created at 2022-01-24 18:35:32

------------

Go to File->Project Structure->Modules. Click on the + (Plus) icon on the top middle and add Android then OK.
Tested on Android Studio 2020.3.1 patch 4. Should work the same on other releases


------------
    
    