
# Post \#66542199 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66542199/)

## What is MaterialStateProperty<Color>?

**Vote**: 58 (113/702) **Views**: 61211 (140/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-560

Created at 2021-03-09 06:59:32

Tags: `flutter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is MaterialStateProperty in ButtonStyle?
```
ThemeData(
  textButtonTheme: TextButtonThemeData(
    style: ButtonStyle(
      backgroundColor: , //?
    ),
  ),
),
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

`MaterialStateProperty` is a type of property in `ButtonStyle` that allows you to define different values for a button's style based on its current state. For example, you can define a different background color for a button when it is pressed or disabled. 

In the code snippet you provided, `backgroundColor` is a `MaterialStateProperty<Color>` that defines the background color of a `TextButton`. You can set different colors for different states of the button by using the `resolve` method of the `MaterialStateProperty` class. For example, to set a different color for when the button is pressed, you can use the following code:

```
backgroundColor: MaterialStateProperty.resolveWith((states) {
  if (states.contains(MaterialState.pressed)) {
    return Colors.red;
  }
  return Colors.blue;
}),
``` 

This will set the background color to red when the button is pressed, and blue for all other states.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

`MaterialStateProperty` is a class in Flutter that represents the state of a material component, such as a button, checkbox, or switch. It is used to define the appearance of a component in different states, such as when it is pressed, disabled, or hovered over.

In the `ButtonStyle` class, `MaterialStateProperty` is used to define the background color of a button in different states. For example, you can set the background color of a button to red when it is pressed, and blue when it is not pressed, using the following code:

```
backgroundColor: MaterialStateProperty.resolveWith<Color>(
  (Set<MaterialState> states) {
    if (states.contains(MaterialState.pressed)) {
      return Colors.red;
    }
    return Colors.blue;
  },
),
```

This code sets the background color of the button to red when it is pressed, and blue when it is not pressed. The `resolveWith` method takes a function that returns the color for a given set of states. In this case, the function checks if the `MaterialState.pressed` state is present in the set of states, and returns the appropriate color.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

`MaterialStateProperty` is a type of property in `ButtonStyle` that allows you to define different values for a button's style based on its current state. For example, you can define a different background color for a button when it is pressed or disabled.

To use `MaterialStateProperty` for `backgroundColor` in `ButtonStyle`, you can define it like this:

```
backgroundColor: MaterialStateProperty.resolveWith<Color>(
  (Set<MaterialState> states) {
    if (states.contains(MaterialState.pressed)) {
      return Colors.red; // set the background color when the button is pressed
    } else {
      return Colors.blue; // set the default background color
    }
  },
),
```

In this example, the button's background color will be red when it is pressed and blue when it is in its default state. You can also define different values for other states such as `disabled`, `hovered`, and `focused`.

--------
