
# Post \#53908405 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53908405/)

## How to add a new pair to Map in Dart?

**Vote**: 110 (52/702) **Views**: 194844 (39/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-538

Created at 2018-12-24 01:28:37

Tags: `flutter` `dart` `key-pair` `fluttermap`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I caught the following errors when adding a new pair to a Map.
- `Variables must be declared using the keywords const, final, var, or a type name`- `Expected to find;`- `the name someMap is already defined`
I executed the following code.
```
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap["c"] = 3;
```

How should I add a new pair to the Map?
I'd also like to know how to use `Map.update`.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Your code for adding a new pair to the Map is correct. The error messages you're seeing may be due to other parts of your code. Here's how you add a new pair to a Map in Dart:

```dart
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap["c"] = 3; // This adds a new pair to the map with key "c" and value 3
```

As for using `Map.update`, it's a method that you can use to update the value for a given key in the map. If the key doesn't exist, you can provide a function to create a new value.

Here's an example:

```dart
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap.update("a", (value) => value + 1); // This will update the value for key "a" to 2
```

In this case, `(value) => value + 1` is a function that takes the current value for the key and returns a new value. If the key "a" didn't exist in the map, you could provide a second function to `update` to create a new value:

```dart
someMap.update("c", (value) => value + 1, ifAbsent: () => 1); // This will add a new pair to the map with key "c" and value 1
```

In this case, `ifAbsent: () => 1` is a function that returns a new value if the key doesn't exist in the map.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Your code for adding a new pair to the Map is correct. The error messages you're seeing might be related to other parts of your code. Here's how you can add a new pair to a Map in Dart:

```dart
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap["c"] = 3; // This will add a new pair with key "c" and value 3 to the Map
```

As for the `Map.update` method, it's used to update the value for a given key in the Map. It takes two parameters: the key of the value to update, and a function that takes the old value and returns the new value. Here's an example:

```dart
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap.update("a", (oldValue) => oldValue + 1); // This will increase the value for key "a" by 1
```

In this example, the `update` method will find the value for the key "a" in the Map (which is 1), pass it to the provided function (which increases it by 1), and then update the value in the Map with the result (which is 2). If the key isn't in the Map, the `update` method will throw an exception. If you want to avoid this, you can use the `update` method with an optional `ifAbsent` parameter:

```dart
someMap.update("c", (oldValue) => oldValue + 1, ifAbsent: () => 1); // This will set the value for key "c" to 1 if it's not in the Map
```

In this case, if the key "c" isn't in the Map, the `ifAbsent` function will be called, and its result will be used as the new value for the key.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The code you provided for adding a new pair to the Map is correct. The error messages you're seeing might be related to other parts of your code. Here's how you can add a new pair to a Map in Dart:

```dart
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap["c"] = 3; // This will add a new pair with key "c" and value 3 to the map
```

Regarding the `Map.update` method, it is used to update the value for the provided key. If the key does not exist, you can provide an optional value to be inserted for the key. Here's an example:

```dart
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap.update("a", (existingValue) => existingValue + 1); // This will update the value of "a" to 2

// If the key does not exist, you can provide a second argument to the update method which will be used as the value for the key
someMap.update("c", (existingValue) => existingValue + 1, ifAbsent: () => 1); // This will add a new pair with key "c" and value 1 to the map
```

In the above example, the `update` method takes two arguments. The first one is a function that takes the existing value for the key and returns the new value. The second argument is a function that returns the value to be used if the key does not exist in the map. This second argument is optional.

--------
