
# Post \#65235879 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65235879/)

## Dart null safety - retrieving value from map in a null safe way

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 8883 (435/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-531

Created at 2020-12-10 13:53:18

Tags: `dart` `dart-null-safety`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I had code similar to this example code (never mind that it makes no sense):
```
void foo(Map<int, String> myMap) {
  String s = myMap[1];
}
```

The dart analyzer warns me about the line `String s = myMap[1];` with the following warning:
> A value of type 'String?' can't be assigned to a variable of type
'String'.  Try changing the type of the variable, or casting the
right-hand type to 'String'.
I see that this is happening because retrieving a value from a map can result in `null`. Why does the following snippet give me the same warning?
```
void foo(Map<int, String> myMap) {
  if (myMap.containsKey(1)) {
    String s = myMap[1];
  }
}
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The Dart static analyzer is not smart enough to infer that `myMap[1]` will not be `null` inside the `if (myMap.containsKey(1))` block. Even though logically we know that if `myMap.containsKey(1)` is true, `myMap[1]` will not be `null`, the Dart analyzer does not make this inference.

The Dart analyzer sees `myMap[1]` as an operation that can potentially return `null`, because the `Map` operator `[]` is defined to return `null` if the key is not present in the map. Therefore, it warns you that you are trying to assign a potentially `null` value to a non-nullable variable.

You can fix this by using the `!` operator to tell the Dart analyzer that you are sure that `myMap[1]` will not be `null` at this point:

```dart
void foo(Map<int, String> myMap) {
  if (myMap.containsKey(1)) {
    String s = myMap[1]!;
  }
}
```

The `!` operator converts a nullable type to a non-nullable type, and will throw an exception at runtime if the value is `null`. In this case, you are sure that `myMap[1]` will not be `null`, so it is safe to use the `!` operator.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The Dart analyzer is still giving you the same warning because even though you have checked if the key exists in the map, the Dart static analyzer does not take this into account when checking types. 

The Dart analyzer does not perform flow analysis to the extent of understanding that `myMap.containsKey(1)` ensures that `myMap[1]` will not return `null`. 

Therefore, when you try to assign `myMap[1]` to `String s`, it still sees the potential for a `null` value, hence the warning.

To fix this, you can use the `!` operator to tell the Dart analyzer that you are sure that the value will not be `null`:

```dart
void foo(Map<int, String> myMap) {
  if (myMap.containsKey(1)) {
    String s = myMap[1]!;
  }
}
```

This tells Dart that you are sure that `myMap[1]` is not `null`, and it will not give you a warning. However, if `myMap[1]` is `null`, this will cause a runtime error.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The Dart analyzer is still giving you the warning because the Dart type system can't infer that the `myMap[1]` will definitely not be `null` even inside the `if (myMap.containsKey(1))` block. 

This is because Dart's type system does not track the state of your objects. It doesn't know that you've just checked that the key `1` exists in the map. All it knows is that the `[]` operator on a `Map` can return `null`, so it warns you about the potential `null`.

To avoid the warning, you can use the `!` operator to tell the Dart analyzer that you're sure the value won't be `null`:

```dart
void foo(Map<int, String> myMap) {
  if (myMap.containsKey(1)) {
    String s = myMap[1]!;
  }
}
```

The `!` operator will throw an error at runtime if the value is `null`, but in this case, you've already checked that the key exists in the map, so it should be safe.

--------
