
# Post \#59945405 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59945405/)

## Your app isn't using AndroidX - Flutter doesn't allow me to generate apk

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 20121 (305/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-553

Created at 2020-01-28 09:15:45

Tags: `android` `gradle` `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I developed an app in flutter with Visual Studio code on Mac. I ran the application without any kind of problem on IOS. I also installed it on a physical device and it works perfectly, but I have a problem generating the Android project study and its APK on with flutter.

: 

```
flutter build appbundle
[!] Your app isn't using AndroidX.
    To avoid potential build failures, you can quickly migrate your app by following the
    steps on ...
Running Gradle task 'bundleRelease'...                                  
Note: Some input files use unchecked or unsafe operations.      
Running Gradle task 'bundleRelease'...                                                     Note: Recompile with -Xlint:unchecked for details.              
Running Gradle task 'bundleRelease'...                                                                                                        
Running Gradle task 'bundleRelease'... Done                       217,9s (!)
Gradle build failed to produce an .aab file. It's likely that this file was generated under
/Users/riccardo/Desktop/QuoteFlutter/quote/build, but the tool couldn't find it.
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that your app is not using AndroidX, which is a major change in the Android ecosystem that was introduced in 2018. To fix this issue, you need to migrate your app to AndroidX. Here are the steps to do that:

1. Open your project in Android Studio.
2. Click on Refactor > Migrate to AndroidX.
3. Android Studio will show you a preview of the changes that will be made. Review them and click on Do Refactor.
4. Wait for the migration process to complete.

After the migration is complete, try running the `flutter build appbundle` command again. If the issue persists, try running the command with the `--verbose` flag to get more information about the error.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that your app is not using AndroidX. To fix this, you need to migrate your app to AndroidX. Here are the steps to do so:

1. Open your Flutter project in Android Studio.
2. Click on Refactor > Migrate to AndroidX from the top menu.
3. Click on Migrate when prompted.
4. Wait for the migration process to complete.

After the migration is complete, try running the `flutter build appbundle` command again. If the issue persists, try running the command with the `--verbose` flag to get more detailed error messages.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message suggests that your app is not using AndroidX, which is a new package structure for Android that replaces the old support libraries. To fix this issue, you need to migrate your app to AndroidX. Here are the steps to do that:

1. Open your Flutter project in Android Studio.
2. Click on Refactor > Migrate to AndroidX from the top menu.
3. Click on Do Refactor and wait for the process to complete.

After the migration is complete, try running the `flutter build appbundle` command again. If you still encounter issues, try running the command with the `--verbose` flag to get more detailed error messages.

--------
