
# Post \#54010649 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54010649/)

## Error when trying to install second flutter app on the emulator

**Vote**: 67 (97/702) **Views**: 54609 (154/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-535

Created at 2019-01-02 17:27:59

Tags: `android` `flutter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I created a simple flutter app and run it on android emulator. It worked Ok. Now I created another one and when I'm trying to run it on the emulator I'm getting:

```
Error: ADB exited with exit code 1
adb: failed to install /Users/Admin/Development/flutter/flutter_app_test/build/app/outputs/apk/app.apk: Failure [INSTALL_FAILED_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE]
Error launching application on Android SDK built for x86.
```


Once I delete the first app from emulator I'm able to install the second one and run it successfully. 

So anytime I have one flutter app installed on the emulator installing another one will lead to the same error.

Is there a way to overcome this limitation? Or this is a bug?


----------
        
## Answer \#0

**Accepted** Vote: 81

Created at 2019-01-02 17:33:33

------------

You probably configures storage too small and you get this error when the emulator runs out of storage when you install.

Either modify the emulator configuration or uninstall before you install another app.

Open the Android Virtual Device (AVD) manager in Android Studio, edit the emulator and increase "Internal Storage" and restart the emulator.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#1

 Vote: 36

Created at 2019-01-31 17:11:44

------------

On android studio

1. Tools > AVD Manager
2. Edit the virtual device
3. Show advanced settings
4. Increase internal storage


[internal storage](https://i.stack.imgur.com/jWros.png)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#2

 Vote: 19

Created at 2020-01-30 17:07:22

------------


# Free-up the space


free space used by emulators / virtual devices

1. Open Android Studio
2. Tools > AVD Manager
3. click menu icon on right side of emulator / virtual device
4. select Wipe Data
5. select Yes


There you'll see the space will be free up.
For clarity see the below image, 3+ GB space is freed to 1.0 GB.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/gyKPH.png)


------------
    
    
## Answer \#3

 Vote: 6

Created at 2020-02-12 21:16:34

------------


# Check Free Space on Emulator - adb shell





Open a Windows Command Prompt / Mac Terminal.

Go to the directory of the `adb.exe` program. (Not necessary if you have this in your PATH.)

On Windows (example location): 

`cd c:\Android\Sdk\platform-tools\`

If you only have one running emulator, you don't need to specify which to , so just run:

`adb shell`

If you have , you can specify  after finding the name using

`adb devices` shows running emulators

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/U62aj.jpg)

 to the emulator

`adb -s emulator-5554 shell`

You'll be presented with a  inside emulator:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/catXY.jpg)

You'll have limited permissions, so  with command:

`su`

Use the  to see disk usage & available space

`df`

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/3lHxN.jpg)

`/data``/data`

Free up space by deleting apps you've installed...


# Delete Apps in adb shell



Your apps are found in `/data/data`:

`cd /data/data`

It's easier to see your apps by reversing the directory listing sort order so your apps will show at bottom:

`ls -ltr`

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/mb3GJ.jpg)

You can delete your app directly here using `rm -r`. In the above example the app is stored under `com.mobdev.user_interface_intro`:

`rm -r /data/data/com.mobdev.user_interface_intro`

Repeat for any other apps you want to delete from the emulator to free up space.


# Delete App in Emulator



You can also delete the app within the running emulator itself.  Click on the Square button > Android Settings (Gear Icon)

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/SGz22.jpg)

Click on 

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/iGWbt.jpg)

Find and click on your app

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/iGood.jpg)

Click on 

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/vamHR.jpg)

Repeat as necessary for other apps you want to uninstall to free up emulator space.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#4

 Vote: 2

Created at 2019-05-29 12:51:38

------------


1. Open AVD Manager
2. Wipe Data (delete datas from emulator)
3. Open emulator
4. Try to run app




------------
    
    
## Answer \#5

 Vote: 0

Created at 2021-12-13 12:48:58

------------

I had the same problem after running the emulator multiple times on multiple projects. I deleted a 'qcow2' file and now the emulator runs peftectly so far at least.
C:\Users\admin \ .android\avd\test_avd_29.avd\userdata-qemu.img.qcow2
when I opened the file I saw that this file was like 1 milion KBytes and it seemed strange to me so I deleted it to see if this will fix the problem and it did.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#6

 Vote: 0

Created at 2022-02-17 06:08:34

------------

i run into this problem already several times. What I usually do, I open the terminal and first run `flutter clean` to clean all unnecessary stuff (build, dart_tool, etc.) and afterwards I run a `flutter pub get` to get the all the dependencies back in.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#7

 Vote: 0

Created at 2022-09-09 16:38:01

------------

I deleted some apps from the emulator and it didn't work.
But then I restarted the emulator and it worked.


------------
    
    
## Answer \#8

 Vote: -1

Created at 2022-08-18 05:39:38

------------

For me it did not work to edit the emulator and increase "Internal Storage" and restart the emulator.


1. Open AVD Manager
2. Delete your current Android device (I deleted all my devices)
3. Add a new device (I added one with 32Gb internal storage)




------------
    
    