
# Post \#49388281 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49388281/)

## Flutter - Vertical Divider and Horizontal Divider

**Vote**: 108 (55/702) **Views**: 149860 (51/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-540

Created at 2018-03-20 15:30:59

Tags: `flutter` `dart` `flutter-layout`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

In Flutter, is there an option to draw a vertical lines between components as in the image.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/rzquW.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, in Flutter you can draw vertical lines between components using the `Divider` widget. Here's an example:

```
Column(
  children: <Widget>[
    Text('Component 1'),
    Divider(),
    Text('Component 2'),
    Divider(),
    Text('Component 3'),
  ],
)
```

This will create a column with three components separated by vertical lines. You can customize the appearance of the `Divider` widget by using its properties, such as `thickness`, `color`, and `indent`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, in Flutter you can draw vertical lines between components using the `Divider` widget. Here's an example:

```
Column(
  children: <Widget>[
    Text('Component 1'),
    Divider(),
    Text('Component 2'),
    Divider(),
    Text('Component 3'),
  ],
)
```

This will create a column of components with vertical lines between them. You can customize the appearance of the `Divider` widget by setting its color, thickness, and indent properties.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, in Flutter you can draw vertical lines between components using the `Divider` widget. Here's an example:

```
Column(
  children: [
    Text('Component 1'),
    Divider(),
    Text('Component 2'),
    Divider(),
    Text('Component 3'),
  ],
)
```

This will create a column with three components separated by vertical lines. You can customize the appearance of the `Divider` widget by setting its color, thickness, and indent properties.

--------
