
# Post \#62257064 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62257064/)

## Is Provider.of(context, listen: false) equivalent to context.read()?

**Vote**: 13 (343/702) **Views**: 9144 (429/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-582

Created at 2020-06-08 07:30:33

Tags: `flutter` `flutter-provider`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
// Are these the same?
final model = Provider.of<Model>(context, listen: false); 
final model = context.read<Model>(); 

// Are these the same?
final model = Provider.of<Model>(context);
final model = context.watch<Model>();
```


Are they the same or aren't they? If they are, then why do I get this error when I use `read` inside the `build()` method, while `Provider.of()` works?

> Tried to use `context.read<Model>` inside either a `build` method or the `update` callback of a provider. 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, both pairs of lines are equivalent in terms of functionality. 

The reason you are getting an error when using `context.read<Model>()` inside the `build()` method is because `read` is a synchronous operation that immediately returns the requested value. This means that if the value has not yet been initialized, `read` will return `null`. 

On the other hand, `Provider.of<Model>(context)` is an asynchronous operation that waits for the value to be initialized before returning it. This is why it works inside the `build()` method. 

To use `read` inside the `build()` method, you can wrap it in a `Builder` widget to ensure that it is only called after the value has been initialized. For example:

```
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Builder(
    builder: (context) {
      final model = context.read<Model>();
      // use model here
    },
  );
}
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, the first two lines and the last two lines are equivalent. Both `Provider.of` and `context.watch` will listen to changes in the model and rebuild the widget tree accordingly.

However, the error you are getting when using `context.read` inside the `build` method or the `update` callback of a provider is because `context.read` is meant to be used outside of the widget tree, such as in a button press or a lifecycle method. This is because `context.read` does not listen to changes in the model and will not rebuild the widget tree. Instead, it will simply return the current value of the model.

If you need to access the model inside the `build` method or the `update` callback of a provider, you should use `Provider.of` with `listen: false` to avoid unnecessary rebuilds.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, both pairs of code are functionally equivalent. 

The reason you are getting an error when using `context.read<Model>()` inside the `build()` method is because `read` is intended to be used outside of the `build()` method. 

`read` is a method of the `BuildContext` class that allows you to retrieve a value from a provider without triggering a rebuild of the widget tree. It is intended to be used in situations where you need to access a value from a provider outside of the `build()` method, such as in response to a user interaction or a network event.

On the other hand, `Provider.of<Model>(context)` and `context.watch<Model>()` both retrieve a value from a provider and register the widget as a dependent of that provider. This means that if the value of the provider changes, the widget will be rebuilt. These methods should be used inside the `build()` method to ensure that the widget is rebuilt when the value of the provider changes.

--------
