
# Post \#65606207 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65606207/)

## How to make super constructor required in dart

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 3750 (550/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-547

Created at 2021-01-07 03:21:04

Tags: `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like the IDE to inform me that I need to construct super constructor in inherited widget's constructor. Say for example if I have abstract class like below
```
abstract class BaseClass {
  final String name;

  BaseClass({
    @required String name,
  }) : this.name = name;
}
```

I want the child class to know that I need to implement the super constructor. The below code throws at runtime but how do I make sure that it throws in build time or IDE lets me know before build?
```
class ChildClass extends BaseClass{}
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To ensure that the child class implements the super constructor, you can add the `@required` annotation to the constructor in the `BaseClass` and also add the `super` keyword to the child class constructor. This will ensure that the child class constructor calls the super constructor of the parent class. 

Here's an example:

```
abstract class BaseClass {
  final String name;

  BaseClass({
    @required this.name,
  });
}

class ChildClass extends BaseClass {
  ChildClass({@required String name}) : super(name: name);
}
```

In this example, the `@required` annotation in the `BaseClass` constructor ensures that the `name` parameter is required. The `super(name: name)` call in the `ChildClass` constructor ensures that the super constructor of the `BaseClass` is called with the required `name` parameter. 

By doing this, the IDE will inform you if you forget to implement the super constructor in the child class.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To ensure that the child class implements the super constructor of the inherited widget's constructor, you can add the `@required` annotation to the constructor of the child class. This will inform the IDE to throw an error if the constructor is not implemented in the child class. Here's an example:

```
class ChildClass extends BaseClass {
  ChildClass({@required String name}) : super(name: name);
}
```

In this example, the `@required` annotation is added to the `name` parameter of the child class constructor. This ensures that the child class constructor must have a `name` parameter and that it must call the super constructor of the inherited widget's constructor with the same `name` parameter. If the child class constructor does not implement the super constructor, the IDE will throw an error at build time.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To ensure that the child class implements the super constructor, you can add the `@required` annotation to the `BaseClass` constructor. This will ensure that any subclass that extends `BaseClass` must call the super constructor with the required parameters.

Here's an example of how you can modify the `BaseClass` constructor to achieve this:

```
abstract class BaseClass {
  final String name;

  const BaseClass({
    @required this.name,
  });
}
```

Now, if you try to create a subclass of `BaseClass` without calling the super constructor, you will get a compile-time error. For example:

```
class ChildClass extends BaseClass {
  // This will result in a compile-time error:
  // The superclass 'BaseClass' doesn't have a zero argument constructor.
}
```

By adding the `@required` annotation to the `BaseClass` constructor, you are telling the compiler that any subclass of `BaseClass` must call the super constructor with the required parameters. This will help catch errors at compile-time rather than at runtime.

--------
