
# Post \#59763793 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59763793/)

## Flutter - Remove String after certain character?

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 55623 (151/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-576

Created at 2020-01-16 06:00:55

Tags: `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is the best way to remove all characters after specific character in the String object in Flutter?

Suppose that I have the following string:

> one.two

and I need to remove the ".two" from it. How can I do it?

Thanks in advance.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `split()` method in Dart (the language used in Flutter) to split the string into a list of substrings based on a specific character. Then, you can simply take the first element of the list. Here's how you can do it:

```dart
String str = 'one.two';
List<String> strParts = str.split('.');
String firstPart = strParts[0]; // 'one'
```

In this code, `str.split('.')` splits the string into a list of substrings at each point where it finds a '.'. The resulting list is `['one', 'two']`. Then, `strParts[0]` gets the first element of the list, which is the part of the string before the '.'.

If you want to make it in one line, you can do it like this:

```dart
String firstPart = 'one.two'.split('.')[0]; // 'one'
```

This will give you the same result.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `split()` method in Dart (the language used in Flutter) to split the string into a list of substrings based on the specific character. Then you can take the first element of the list which is the part of the string before the specific character. Here is how you can do it:

```dart
String str = 'one.two';
String result = str.split('.')[0];
print(result);  // prints: one
```

In this code, `split('.')` splits the string into a list of two strings: `['one', 'two']`. The `[0]` then selects the first element of this list. 

Please note that if the specific character does not exist in the string, the result will be the original string.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `split()` method in Dart (which Flutter uses) to split the string into a list of substrings based on a pattern, and then select the first element of the list. Here's how you can do it:

```dart
String str = 'one.two';
String newStr = str.split('.')[0];
print(newStr);  // Outputs: one
```

In this code, `split('.')` splits the string into a list of substrings at each point where the '.' character is found. The `[0]` then selects the first element of this list, which is the part of the string before the '.'.

--------
