
# Post \#73411087 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73411087/)

## Convert nullable variable with int.parse using dart

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 627 (685/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-530

Created at 2022-08-19 01:50:10

Tags: `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Do I need to convert a string? to an int if the value in the string is not null. (My routeArgs variable may be is null) I was doing according to this code before the null safety:
```
final routeArgs = ModalRoute.of(context)!.settings.arguments as Map<String, String>;
if(routeArgs["id"] != null){
   id = int.parse(routeArgs["id"]);
 }
```

But now it displays the error stating: "The argument type 'String?' can't be assigned to the parameter type 'String'."  I tried to correct as the code below:
```
final routeArgs = ModalRoute.of(context)!.settings.arguments as Map<String, String>;
   
    int id;
    String? idtest = routeArgs["id"]; 
    if (idtest != null){
      id = int.parse(idtest);
    }
```

This code stopped giving error, but I think this is not the correct way to solve it, I would need to do this for several variable values. Would it be correct for me to make a function just for conversion? Could anyone give me an idea of a solution?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, you are correct. The error is because the `Map` indexing operation can return `null` if the key is not found, and `int.parse` does not accept `null` as an argument. Your solution is correct, but it can be a bit verbose if you have to do it for many variables.

Creating a function to handle this conversion can make your code cleaner and more maintainable. Here's an example of how you could do it:

```dart
int? parseToInt(String? value) {
  if (value != null) {
    return int.parse(value);
  }
  return null;
}
```

Then, you can use this function to parse your values:

```dart
final routeArgs = ModalRoute.of(context)!.settings.arguments as Map<String, String>;
int? id = parseToInt(routeArgs["id"]);
```

This way, if `routeArgs["id"]` is `null`, `parseToInt` will return `null` and `id` will be `null`. If `routeArgs["id"]` is not `null`, `parseToInt` will parse it to an `int` and `id` will hold that `int` value.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can create a function to handle this conversion. This function will take a nullable string as an argument and return an integer. If the string is not null, it will parse the string to an integer. If the string is null, it will return a default value (like 0 or null). Here is an example:

```dart
int parseStringToInt(String? value, [int defaultValue = 0]) {
  if (value != null) {
    return int.parse(value);
  } else {
    return defaultValue;
  }
}
```

You can use this function in your code like this:

```dart
final routeArgs = ModalRoute.of(context)!.settings.arguments as Map<String, String>;

int id = parseStringToInt(routeArgs["id"]);
```

This way, you don't need to check for null every time you want to parse a string to an integer. The function will handle it for you.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can create a function to handle this conversion. This function will take a `String?` as input and return an `int?`. If the input is not null, it will parse the string to an integer, otherwise it will return null. Here is an example:

```dart
int? parseInt(String? value) {
  if (value != null) {
    return int.parse(value);
  }
  return null;
}
```

Then you can use this function to parse your id:

```dart
final routeArgs = ModalRoute.of(context)!.settings.arguments as Map<String, String>;
int? id = parseInt(routeArgs["id"]);
```

This way, you can reuse the `parseInt` function for other variables as well.

--------
