
# Post \#63953363 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63953363/)

## Flutter : PlatformException(no_available_camera, No cameras available for taking pictures., null, null)

**Vote**: 27 (213/702) **Views**: 12703 (387/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-556

Created at 2020-09-18 09:48:13

Tags: `flutter` `android-camera` `android-permissions` `imagepicker`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

guys! I am facing this camera version. It happened after I merged my projects. It says there is no camera available but back then it was running fine. Please have a look!
```
E/flutter: [ERROR:flutter/lib/ui/ui_dart_state.cc(177)] Unhandled Exception: PlatformException(no_available_camera, No cameras available for taking pictures., null, null)
    #0      StandardMethodCodec.decodeEnvelope (package:flutter/src/services/message_codecs.dart:582:7)
    #1      MethodChannel._invokeMethod (package:flutter/src/services/platform_channel.dart:159:18)
    <asynchronous suspension>
    #2      MethodChannel.invokeMethod (package:flutter/src/services/platform_channel.dart:332:12)
    #3      MethodChannelImagePicker.pickImagePath (package:image_picker_platform_interface/src/method_channel/method_channel_image_picker.dart:62:21)
    #4      MethodChannelImagePicker.pickImage (package:image_picker_platform_interface/src/method_channel/method_channel_image_picker.dart:30:25)
    #5      ImagePicker.getImage (package:image_picker/image_picker.dart:101:21)
    #6      _ImageEvaluationState.getImage (package:PhotoEarn/screens/camera/image_evaluation.dart:201:38)
    #7      _ImageEvaluationState.build.<anonymous closure> (package:PhotoEarn/screens/camera/image_evaluation.dart:1099:33)
    #8      _InkResponseState._handleTap (package:flutter/src/material/ink_well.dart:993:19)
    #9      _InkResponseState.build.<anonymous closure> (package:flutter/src/material/ink_well.dart:1111:38)
    #10     GestureRecognizer.invokeCallback (package:flutter/src/gestures/recognizer.dart:183:24)
    #11     TapGestureRecognizer.handleTapUp (package:flutter/src/gestures/tap.dart:598:11)
    #12     BaseTapGestureRecognizer._checkUp (package:flutter/src/gestures/tap.dart:287:5)
    #13     BaseTapGestureRecognizer.acceptGesture (package:flutter/src/gestures/tap.dart:259:7)
    #14     GestureArenaManager.sweep (package:flutter/src/gestures/arena.dart:157:27)
    #15     GestureBinding.handleEvent (package:flutter/src/gestures/binding.dart:362:20)
    #16     GestureBinding.dispatchEvent (package:flutter/src/gestures/binding.dart:338:22)
    #17     RendererBinding.dispatchEvent (package:flutter/src/rendering/binding.dart:267:11)
    #18     GestureBinding._handlePointerEvent (package:flutter/src/gestures/binding.dart:295:7)
    #19     GestureBinding._flushPointerEventQueue (package:flutter/src/gestures/binding.dart:240:7)
    #20     GestureBinding._handlePointerDataPacket (package:flutter/src/gestures/binding.dart:213:7)
    #21     _rootRunUnary (dart:async/zone.dart:1206:13)
    #22     _CustomZone.runUnary (dart:async/zone.dart:1100:19)
    #23     _CustomZone.runUnaryGuarded (dart:async/zone.dart:1005:7)
    #24     _invoke1 (dart:ui/hooks.dart:265:10)
    #25     _dispatchPointerDataPacket (dart:ui/hooks.dart:174:5)
```

Please have a look at this error message and help in this. I am looking to hearing from you all. Thank you in advance.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message `PlatformException(no_available_camera, No cameras available for taking pictures., null, null)` indicates that the application is unable to access the camera on the device. This could be due to a number of reasons:

1. **Permissions**: The application might not have the necessary permissions to access the camera. You need to ensure that the camera permission is requested and granted before trying to access the camera.

2. **Hardware**: The device you are testing on might not have a camera, or the camera might be in use by another application.

3. **Emulator**: If you are testing on an emulator, it might not have a camera. You can try testing on a physical device instead.

Here are some steps you can take to resolve this issue:

1. **Check Permissions**: Make sure your app has the necessary permissions to access the camera. In your `AndroidManifest.xml` file, you should have the following line:

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
```

Also, you need to request this permission at runtime before trying to access the camera. You can use the `permission_handler` package to handle runtime permissions in Flutter.

2. **Check Hardware**: Try testing your app on a different device to see if the issue persists. If it works on one device but not another, the issue might be with the device itself.

3. **Check Emulator**: If you are testing on an emulator, try testing on a physical device instead. Not all emulators support all hardware features, and this might be causing the issue.

4. **Check Code**: There might be an issue with the code where you are trying to access the camera. Make sure you are using the `image_picker` package correctly. You can refer to the [image_picker example](https://pub.dev/packages/image_picker/example) for a working example of how to use the package.

If none of these steps resolve the issue, please provide more information about your setup (e.g., Flutter version, `image_picker` version, testing device, etc.) so we can help you better.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is indicating that the Flutter application is unable to find a camera on the device. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The device you're testing on doesn't have a camera.
2. The camera is being used by another application.
3. The camera permissions have not been granted for your application.

Here are a few steps you can take to resolve this issue:

1. **Check the device:** Ensure that the device you're testing on has a camera. If you're using an emulator, make sure it's configured to emulate a device with a camera.

2. **Check the permissions:** Make sure your application has the necessary permissions to access the camera. In your `AndroidManifest.xml` file, you should have the following lines:

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera.autofocus" />
```

3. **Check if the camera is being used by another application:** If another application is using the camera, your application won't be able to access it. Make sure no other applications are using the camera when you're testing your application.

4. **Check your code:** Make sure you're calling the `ImagePicker.getImage()` method correctly. The error is being thrown at this line, so there might be an issue with how you're calling this method.

If you've checked all of these and you're still seeing the error, it might be a bug with the `image_picker` package. You could try using a different package to access the camera, or you could file an issue on the `image_picker` GitHub page.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is indicating that the Flutter app is unable to access the camera on your device. This could be due to a number of reasons:

1. **Permissions**: Ensure that your app has the necessary permissions to access the camera. You need to request camera permissions in your AndroidManifest.xml and Info.plist for Android and iOS respectively.

    For Android:
    ```
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
    <uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera" />
    <uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera.autofocus" />
    ```
    For iOS in Info.plist:
    ```
    <key>NSCameraUsageDescription</key>
    <string>Can I use the camera please?</string>
    <key>NSMicrophoneUsageDescription</key>
    <string>Can I use the mic please?</string>
    ```

2. **Device Compatibility**: Ensure that the device you're testing on has a camera. The error could be because you're testing on a simulator or an emulator that doesn't have a camera.

3. **Camera Plugin**: Ensure that the camera plugin you're using is up-to-date and compatible with the version of Flutter you're using. You might need to update the plugin or Flutter if they're not compatible.

4. **Code Error**: There might be an error in the way you're calling the camera function. Make sure you're following the correct procedure for accessing the camera using the plugin you're using.

If you've checked all of these and you're still seeing the error, it might be a more complex issue that needs further investigation.

--------
