
# Post \#53908405 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53908405/)

## How to add a new pair to Map in Dart?

**Vote**: 110 (52/702) **Views**: 194844 (39/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-538

Created at 2018-12-24 01:28:37

Tags: `flutter` `dart` `key-pair` `fluttermap`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I caught the following errors when adding a new pair to a Map.
- `Variables must be declared using the keywords const, final, var, or a type name`- `Expected to find;`- `the name someMap is already defined`
I executed the following code.
```
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap["c"] = 3;
```

How should I add a new pair to the Map?
I'd also like to know how to use `Map.update`.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To add a new pair to the Map, you can use the `putIfAbsent` method or simply assign a value to a new key. Here's an example:

```
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

// Using putIfAbsent
someMap.putIfAbsent("c", () => 3);

// Assigning a value to a new key
someMap["d"] = 4;
```

To use `Map.update`, you need to provide a key and a function that takes the current value and returns the new value. Here's an example:

```
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap.update("b", (value) => value + 1);

print(someMap); // Output: {"a": 1, "b": 3}
```

In this example, we're updating the value of the key "b" by adding 1 to its current value. The `update` method returns the new value of the key.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To add a new pair to the Map, you can use the `putIfAbsent` method or simply assign a value to a new key. Here's an example:

```
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

// Using putIfAbsent
someMap.putIfAbsent("c", () => 3);

// Assigning a value to a new key
someMap["d"] = 4;
```

To update an existing key-value pair in the Map, you can use the `update` method. Here's an example:

```
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap.update("a", (value) => value + 1);

print(someMap); // Output: {"a": 2, "b": 2}
```

The `update` method takes two arguments: the key to update and a function that takes the current value as an argument and returns the new value. In the example above, we're updating the value of the key "a" by adding 1 to its current value.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To add a new pair to the Map, you can use the `putIfAbsent` method. Here's an example:

```
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap.putIfAbsent("c", () => 3);
```

This will add the key-value pair `"c": 3` to the Map only if the key `"c"` is not already present in the Map.

To use `Map.update`, you can pass the key and a function that takes the current value and returns the new value. Here's an example:

```
Map<String, int> someMap = {
  "a": 1,
  "b": 2,
};

someMap.update("c", (value) => value + 3, ifAbsent: () => 3);
```

This will update the value of the key `"c"` to `3` if it is not already present in the Map. If it is present, the function `(value) => value + 3` will be called with the current value of `"c"` and the returned value will be set as the new value.

--------
