
# Post \#54371874 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54371874/)

## How get the name of the days of the week in Dart

**Vote**: 72 (90/702) **Views**: 85867 (98/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-574

Created at 2019-01-25 19:44:35

Tags: `flutter` `datetime` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Somebody knows how can I extract from DateTime the name of the day of the week?

ej: 

```
DateTime date = DateTime.now();
String dateFormat = DateFormat('dd-MM-yyyy hh:mm').format(date);
```


Result -> Friday


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `DateFormat` class to format the `DateTime` object and extract the name of the day of the week. Here's an example:

```
DateTime date = DateTime.now();
String dayOfWeek = DateFormat('EEEE').format(date);
print(dayOfWeek); // Output: Friday
```

In this example, the `DateFormat` pattern `'EEEE'` represents the full name of the day of the week. You can use other patterns to extract different parts of the date and time.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `DateFormat` class to format the `DateTime` object and extract the name of the day of the week. Here's an example:

```
DateTime date = DateTime.now();
String dayOfWeek = DateFormat('EEEE').format(date);
print(dayOfWeek); // Output: Friday
```

In this example, we're using the `DateFormat` constructor with the `'EEEE'` pattern, which represents the full name of the day of the week. You can also use other patterns to extract different parts of the date and time.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `DateFormat` class to format the `DateTime` object and extract the name of the day of the week. Here's an example:

```
DateTime date = DateTime.now();
String dayOfWeek = DateFormat('EEEE').format(date);
print(dayOfWeek); // Output: Friday
```

In this example, the `DateFormat` pattern `'EEEE'` is used to extract the full name of the day of the week. You can also use other patterns to extract different formats of the day of the week. For example, `'E'` will give you the abbreviated name of the day of the week (e.g. "Fri"), and `'EEEEE'` will give you a narrow format (e.g. "F").

--------
