
# Post \#59100723 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59100723/)

## Flutter ChangeNotifierProvider builder is deprecated

**Vote**: 24 (233/702) **Views**: 15644 (348/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-569

Created at 2019-11-29 07:46:44

Tags: `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have this code in my main.dart:

```
main() {
  runApp(
    MultiProvider(
      providers: [
        ChangeNotifierProvider(builder: (context) => Auth()), // /**problem here. builder displayed with strikethrough line**/
      ],
      child: App(),
    ),
  );
}
```


since about 2 days ago, my visual studio code showing this warning:

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/7hSyw.png)

so I guess builder parameter on ChangeNotifierProvider is deprecated. I searched everywhere but can't find alternative to this builder parameter. So how to remove these warning? Below is my flutter version using `flutter --version` command on Windows 10

```
> flutter --version
Flutter 1.9.1+hotfix.6 • channel stable • https://github.com/flutter/flutter.git
Framework • revision 68587a0916 (3 months ago) • 2019-09-13 19:46:58 -0700
Engine • revision b863200c37
Tools • Dart 2.5.0
```


For any help, thanks in advance


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `builder` parameter in `ChangeNotifierProvider` has been deprecated and replaced with `create`. So, you should replace `builder` with `create` in your code.

Here is the updated code:

```dart
main() {
  runApp(
    MultiProvider(
      providers: [
        ChangeNotifierProvider(create: (context) => Auth()),
      ],
      child: App(),
    ),
  );
}
```

This change was made to make the API more consistent across different kinds of providers. The `create` parameter is more descriptive of its purpose, which is to create the provided object.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `builder` parameter in `ChangeNotifierProvider` has been deprecated and replaced with `create`. So, you should replace `builder` with `create` in your code.

Here is how you can modify your code:

```dart
main() {
  runApp(
    MultiProvider(
      providers: [
        ChangeNotifierProvider(create: (context) => Auth()),
      ],
      child: App(),
    ),
  );
}
```

This change was made to make the API more consistent with other parts of the Flutter framework. The `create` parameter is more descriptive of its purpose, which is to create a new instance of a `ChangeNotifier`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `builder` parameter has been deprecated in favor of the `create` parameter. The `create` parameter is a function that creates a new instance of the provided class. Here is how you can update your code:

```dart
main() {
  runApp(
    MultiProvider(
      providers: [
        ChangeNotifierProvider(create: (context) => Auth()),
      ],
      child: App(),
    ),
  );
}
```

This change was made to make the naming more consistent and intuitive. The `create` function is called when a new instance of the provided class is needed, which is exactly what it does.

--------
