
# Post \#69182818 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69182818/)

## How to listen to the changes and rebuild the widget in flutter using provider packge?

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 2103 (601/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-558

Created at 2021-09-14 18:22:10

Tags: `flutter` `flutter-layout` `flutter-dependencies` `flutter-web` `flutter-animation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

The problem i am facing is,
I am connecting my ui to backend with websocket using subscribe method(graphql client). That means there is a connection between my ui and backend. I am storing the data i got from backend  in the local storage
From the local storage, i am getting that data,
Whenever i receive the data from backend it should be reflected in the ui automatically. For reflecting change in ui, i am using state management provider package.What should i do to make my widget rebuild on listening to the changes i had made using provider package;


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

To make your widget rebuild on listening to the changes you made using the provider package, you need to use the `Consumer` widget or `Provider.of<T>(context)` in your widget tree. 

Here's a basic example:

```dart
class MyWidget extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Consumer<MyModel>(
      builder: (context, myModel, child) {
        return Text(myModel.someValue);
      },
    );
  }
}
```

In this example, whenever `someValue` changes in your `MyModel` class, `MyWidget` will rebuild with the new value.

If you want to use `Provider.of<T>(context)`, you can do it like this:

```dart
class MyWidget extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    final myModel = Provider.of<MyModel>(context);
    return Text(myModel.someValue);
  }
}
```

This will also rebuild `MyWidget` whenever `someValue` changes in your `MyModel` class.

Remember, for this to work, you need to provide your model above `MyWidget` in the widget tree:

```dart
void main() {
  runApp(
    ChangeNotifierProvider(
      create: (context) => MyModel(),
      child: MyApp(),
    ),
  );
}
```

In this example, `MyModel` is a `ChangeNotifier`, and whenever you call `notifyListeners()` in `MyModel`, all widgets that depend on `MyModel` will rebuild.

So, in your case, whenever you receive new data from the backend, update your model and call `notifyListeners()`. This will cause all widgets that depend on this model to rebuild, reflecting the new data in your UI.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

To make your widget rebuild on listening to the changes you made using the Provider package, you can follow these steps:

1. First, you need to wrap your widget with a `ChangeNotifierProvider` or `Provider` (depending on your use case). This will provide your widget with the instance of the class where you have defined your state and logic.

```dart
ChangeNotifierProvider(
  create: (context) => YourClass(),
  child: YourWidget(),
),
```

2. In your class, you need to extend `ChangeNotifier` and whenever you update your data, you need to call `notifyListeners()`.

```dart
class YourClass extends ChangeNotifier {
  // Your data and logic

  void updateData() {
    // Update your data
    notifyListeners();
  }
}
```

3. In your widget, you need to listen to the changes in your class. You can do this by using `Provider.of<YourClass>(context)` or `context.watch<YourClass>()` (if you're using Provider 4.1.0 or above).

```dart
final yourClass = Provider.of<YourClass>(context);
```
or
```dart
final yourClass = context.watch<YourClass>();
```

4. Now, whenever you call `updateData()`, your widget will rebuild.

Remember, if you don't want your widget to rebuild, but you still want to access the data, you can use `Provider.of<YourClass>(context, listen: false)` or `context.read<YourClass>()`.

Also, make sure you're not subscribing to the websocket in the build method of your widget, as this will cause a new subscription every time your widget rebuilds. Instead, you should subscribe in the `initState` method of your widget or in your class.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

To make your widget rebuild on listening to the changes you made using the Provider package, you need to use the `Consumer` widget or `Provider.of<T>(context)` method in your widget tree. Here is a simple example:

```dart
class MyWidget extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Consumer<MyModel>(
      builder: (context, myModel, child) {
        return Text(myModel.someValue);
      },
    );
  }
}
```

In this example, whenever `someValue` changes in your `MyModel`, `MyWidget` will rebuild with the new value.

If you want to use `Provider.of<T>(context)` method, you can do it like this:

```dart
class MyWidget extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    final myModel = Provider.of<MyModel>(context);
    return Text(myModel.someValue);
  }
}
```

In both cases, your widget will rebuild whenever the provided model changes.

Remember to provide your model above your widgets in the widget tree:

```dart
void main() {
  runApp(
    ChangeNotifierProvider(
      create: (context) => MyModel(),
      child: MyApp(),
    ),
  );
}
```

In your case, you should store your data from the backend in your model and notify listeners whenever the data changes. Then, use `Consumer` or `Provider.of<T>(context)` in your widgets that should rebuild when the data changes.

--------
