
# Post \#54010649 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54010649/)

## Error when trying to install second flutter app on the emulator

**Vote**: 67 (97/702) **Views**: 54609 (154/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-535

Created at 2019-01-02 17:27:59

Tags: `android` `flutter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I created a simple flutter app and run it on android emulator. It worked Ok. Now I created another one and when I'm trying to run it on the emulator I'm getting:

```
Error: ADB exited with exit code 1
adb: failed to install /Users/Admin/Development/flutter/flutter_app_test/build/app/outputs/apk/app.apk: Failure [INSTALL_FAILED_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE]
Error launching application on Android SDK built for x86.
```


Once I delete the first app from emulator I'm able to install the second one and run it successfully. 

So anytime I have one flutter app installed on the emulator installing another one will lead to the same error.

Is there a way to overcome this limitation? Or this is a bug?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error message indicates that there is not enough storage space on the emulator to install the second app. You can try increasing the storage space of the emulator by creating a new emulator with more storage space or by increasing the storage space of the existing emulator.

To create a new emulator with more storage space, follow these steps:

1. Open Android Studio and go to the AVD Manager.
2. Click on "Create Virtual Device".
3. Select a device and click "Next".
4. Choose a system image and click "Next".
5. In the "Emulated Performance" section, increase the "Internal Storage" value.
6. Click "Finish" to create the new emulator.

To increase the storage space of an existing emulator, follow these steps:

1. Open Android Studio and go to the AVD Manager.
2. Click on the "Edit" button next to the emulator you want to modify.
3. In the "Advanced Settings" section, click on "Show Advanced Settings".
4. Increase the "Internal Storage" value.
5. Click "Finish" to save the changes.

If increasing the storage space does not solve the problem, you can try wiping the data of the emulator. This will delete all the data on the emulator, including the previously installed app, and free up space for the new app. To wipe the data of the emulator, follow these steps:

1. Open Android Studio and go to the AVD Manager.
2. Click on the "Wipe Data" button next to the emulator you want to wipe.
3. Click "OK" to confirm.

Note that wiping the data will delete all the data on the emulator, so make sure to back up any important data before doing this.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that there is not enough storage space on the emulator to install the second app. You can try increasing the storage space of the emulator to overcome this limitation. 

To do this, follow these steps:

1. Open the Android Virtual Device Manager in Android Studio.
2. Click on the pencil icon to edit the emulator.
3. Scroll down to the "Emulated Performance" section.
4. Increase the value of "Internal Storage" to a higher value, such as 2 GB or more.
5. Click on "Finish" to save the changes.

After increasing the storage space, try running the second app again and see if it installs successfully. If the issue persists, you can try creating a new emulator with a higher storage capacity.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that there is not enough storage space on the emulator to install the second app. This is not a bug, but rather a limitation of the emulator.

To overcome this limitation, you can try one of the following solutions:

1. Increase the storage space of the emulator: You can create a new emulator with a larger storage capacity or increase the storage capacity of the existing emulator. To do this, go to the AVD Manager, select the emulator, click on "Edit" and then increase the "Internal storage" value.

2. Clear the data of the first app: Instead of deleting the first app, you can try clearing its data. To do this, go to the emulator's settings, select "Apps & notifications", find the first app and click on "Storage". Then click on "Clear storage" and "Clear cache". This will free up some space on the emulator and allow you to install the second app.

3. Use a physical device: If you have a physical Android device, you can connect it to your computer and run the apps on it instead of the emulator. This will eliminate the storage limitation issue.

I hope one of these solutions works for you.

--------
