
# Post \#59763793 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59763793/)

## Flutter - Remove String after certain character?

**Vote**: 28 (207/702) **Views**: 55623 (151/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-576

Created at 2020-01-16 06:00:55

Tags: `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is the best way to remove all characters after specific character in the String object in Flutter?

Suppose that I have the following string:

> one.two

and I need to remove the ".two" from it. How can I do it?

Thanks in advance.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `substring` method of the `String` class in Flutter to remove all characters after a specific character. Here's an example:

```dart
String myString = "one.two";
String newString = myString.substring(0, myString.indexOf('.'));
print(newString); // Output: "one"
```

In this example, we first define a `myString` variable with the value "one.two". We then use the `substring` method to extract the characters from the beginning of the string up to the index of the "." character. The `indexOf` method is used to find the index of the "." character in the string. Finally, we print the new string "one" to the console.

Note that if the "." character is not found in the string, the `indexOf` method will return -1, so you may want to add some error handling to your code to handle this case.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `substring` method of the `String` class to achieve this. Here's an example:

```dart
String str = "one.two";
String newStr = str.substring(0, str.indexOf(".")); // "one"
```

In this example, we first define the original string `str`. Then, we use the `indexOf` method to find the index of the first occurrence of the dot character (`.`) in the string. We pass this index to the `substring` method along with 0 as the starting index to get a new string that starts at the beginning of the original string and ends at the index of the dot character. This effectively removes everything after the dot character in the original string.

The resulting `newStr` variable will contain the modified string "one".

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `substring` method of the `String` class to achieve this. Here's an example:

```dart
String str = "one.two";
String newStr = str.substring(0, str.indexOf('.'));
print(newStr); // Output: "one"
```

In the above code, `str.indexOf('.')` returns the index of the first occurrence of the dot character in the string. Then, we use the `substring` method to extract the substring from the beginning of the original string up to the index of the dot character.

This will give you the desired output of `"one"`.

--------
