
# Post \#54010649 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54010649/)

## Error when trying to install second flutter app on the emulator

**Vote**: 67 (97/702) **Views**: 54609 (154/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-535

Created at 2019-01-02 17:27:59

Tags: `android` `flutter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I created a simple flutter app and run it on android emulator. It worked Ok. Now I created another one and when I'm trying to run it on the emulator I'm getting:

```
Error: ADB exited with exit code 1
adb: failed to install /Users/Admin/Development/flutter/flutter_app_test/build/app/outputs/apk/app.apk: Failure [INSTALL_FAILED_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE]
Error launching application on Android SDK built for x86.
```


Once I delete the first app from emulator I'm able to install the second one and run it successfully. 

So anytime I have one flutter app installed on the emulator installing another one will lead to the same error.

Is there a way to overcome this limitation? Or this is a bug?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing, `INSTALL_FAILED_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE`, indicates that there is not enough storage space on your Android emulator to install the new app. This is not a bug, but rather a limitation of the emulator's storage capacity.

Here are a few solutions you can try:

1. **Increase the Internal Storage of the Emulator**: You can increase the internal storage of your emulator. To do this, go to the AVD Manager in Android Studio, click on the pencil icon to edit the AVD, then click on "Show Advanced Settings". Here, you can increase the "Internal Storage" size.

2. **Clear Cache/Data of the Emulator**: You can also try clearing the cache or data of your emulator. To do this, go to the "Settings" app in your emulator, then go to "Storage", then "Cached Data", and clear it.

3. **Uninstall Unnecessary Apps**: As you've already noticed, uninstalling apps that you no longer need can free up storage space. You can do this from the "Settings" app in your emulator, under "Apps".

4. **Create a New Emulator with More Storage**: If all else fails, you can create a new emulator with more storage. To do this, go to the AVD Manager in Android Studio, click on "Create Virtual Device", select the device you want, then click on "Next". Here, you can set the "Internal Storage" size to a larger value.

Remember that each app you install takes up storage space, so if you're planning on installing multiple apps, you'll need to ensure your emulator has enough storage to accommodate them.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing, `INSTALL_FAILED_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE`, indicates that there's not enough storage space on your Android emulator to install the new app. This is not a bug, but rather a limitation of the emulator's storage capacity.

Here are a few solutions you can try:

1. **Increase the storage of your emulator**: You can do this by editing the AVD (Android Virtual Device) settings in Android Studio. Go to "Tools" -> "AVD Manager", then click on the pencil icon to edit the AVD. Click on "Show Advanced Settings" and increase the "Internal Storage" size.

2. **Clear the cache and data of your emulator**: Sometimes, the emulator might be filled with cache and data from the apps you've been running. You can clear this by going to "Settings" -> "Storage" -> "Cached Data" on your emulator and clear it.

3. **Uninstall unnecessary apps**: If you have other apps installed on your emulator that you're not using, consider uninstalling them to free up some space.

4. **Create a new emulator with more storage**: If none of the above solutions work, you can create a new AVD with more storage. Go to "Tools" -> "AVD Manager" -> "Create Virtual Device", then select a device definition and click "Next". In the "System Image" step, select an API level and click "Next". In the "Android Virtual Device (AVD)" step, increase the "Internal Storage" size before clicking "Finish".

Remember that each app you install takes up some space, so you'll need to manage your emulator's storage accordingly.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message `Failure [INSTALL_FAILED_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE]` indicates that there is not enough storage space on your emulator to install the new app. This is not a bug, but a limitation of the storage capacity of your emulator.

Here are a few solutions you can try:

1. **Increase the storage of your emulator**: You can do this by editing the settings of your emulator in the Android Virtual Device (AVD) Manager. Increase the "Internal Storage" size to a larger value.

2. **Clear Cache and Data of your Apps**: Sometimes, apps can store a lot of cache and data which can fill up your storage. Go to the settings of your emulator, find the list of apps, and clear the cache and data for some of them.

3. **Uninstall unnecessary apps**: If there are apps on your emulator that you don't need, uninstall them to free up some space.

4. **Create a new emulator with more storage**: If none of the above solutions work, you can create a new emulator with a larger storage capacity.

Remember, each app you install takes up some storage space, so if you're planning to install multiple apps, you'll need to ensure your emulator has enough storage to accommodate them all.

--------
