
# Post \#54792056 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54792056/)

## Add/Subtract months/years to date in dart?

**Vote**: 113 (49/702) **Views**: 112431 (73/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-562

Created at 2019-02-20 17:22:39

Tags: `flutter` `date` `dart` `subtraction`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I saw that in dart there is a class Duration but it cant be used add/subtract years or month. How did you managed this issue, I need to subtract 6 months from an date. Is there something like moment.js for dart or something around?
Thank you


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you are correct that the `Duration` class in Dart does not have built-in methods to add or subtract years or months. However, you can achieve this functionality using the `DateTime` class.

To subtract 6 months from a `DateTime` object, you can use the `subtract` method and pass in a `Duration` object representing 6 months. Here's an example:

```
DateTime date = DateTime.now();
DateTime sixMonthsAgo = date.subtract(Duration(days: 30 * 6));
```

This subtracts 6 months (approximately 30 days per month) from the current date and time.

As for a library similar to moment.js in Dart, you can use the `intl` package which provides a `DateFormat` class for formatting and parsing dates. However, it does not have the same level of functionality as moment.js.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you are correct that the `Duration` class in Dart does not have built-in support for adding or subtracting years or months. However, you can achieve this functionality by using the `DateTime` class and some simple math.

To subtract 6 months from a `DateTime` object, you can use the `subtract` method and pass in a `Duration` object that represents 6 months. Here's an example:

```
DateTime date = DateTime.now();
DateTime sixMonthsAgo = date.subtract(Duration(days: 30 * 6));
```

In this example, we're subtracting a `Duration` of 6 months, which is equivalent to 180 days (assuming each month has 30 days). We then subtract this `Duration` from the current date to get a new `DateTime` object that represents 6 months ago.

As for a library like moment.js for Dart, there are several options available. One popular choice is the `date_format` package, which provides a variety of date formatting and parsing utilities. Another option is the `timeago` package, which can generate human-readable descriptions of how long ago a given date was.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you are correct that the `Duration` class in Dart does not have built-in support for adding or subtracting years or months. However, there are a few ways you can work around this issue.

One approach is to use the `DateTime` class in combination with the `Duration` class to perform date arithmetic. For example, to subtract 6 months from a given date, you could do something like this:

```
DateTime date = DateTime.now();
DateTime newDate = DateTime(date.year, date.month - 6, date.day);
```

This creates a new `DateTime` object with the same day and time as the original date, but with the month value decreased by 6.

Another option is to use a third-party library like `date_format` or `time_machine` that provides additional date/time manipulation functionality. For example, `time_machine` has a `LocalDate` class that supports adding and subtracting years and months:

```
import 'package:time_machine/time_machine.dart';

LocalDate date = LocalDate.today();
LocalDate newDate = date.addMonths(-6);
```

Finally, you could also consider creating your own custom `Duration` class that supports years and months. This would require some additional work, but could be a good option if you need to perform a lot of date arithmetic in your code.

--------
