
# Post \#72954372 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72954372/)

## What is the right way to disable back button in flutter when one has reached the login page after logging out?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 842 (673/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-548

Created at 2022-07-12 14:56:16

Tags: `android` `flutter` `flutter-navigation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to restrict the user from viewing inner pages of the app after the user has logged out and has been redirected to the login page. What I know so far is the use of `Navigator.pop(context)` or `Navigator.of(context).pop()` to move back to a previous page. But this isn't fitting in the use case I have mentioned (or maybe I don't know).


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To restrict the user from viewing inner pages of the app after logging out, you can use a combination of `Navigator.pushReplacement()` and `Navigator.pushAndRemoveUntil()` methods.

Here's how it works:

1. After the user logs out, use `Navigator.pushReplacement()` to navigate to the login page. This will replace the current page in the navigation stack with the login page.

```
Navigator.pushReplacement(
  context,
  MaterialPageRoute(builder: (context) => LoginPage()),
);
```

2. Once the user is on the login page, use `Navigator.pushAndRemoveUntil()` to remove all the pages in the navigation stack except for the login page. This will ensure that the user cannot navigate back to the inner pages of the app.

```
Navigator.pushAndRemoveUntil(
  context,
  MaterialPageRoute(builder: (context) => LoginPage()),
  (route) => false,
);
```

The `pushAndRemoveUntil()` method takes three arguments: the context, the new page to navigate to (in this case, the login page), and a function that determines which pages to remove from the navigation stack. In this case, we're removing all pages except for the login page by returning `false` for all routes.

By using these two methods together, you can ensure that the user cannot navigate back to the inner pages of the app after logging out.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To restrict the user from viewing inner pages of the app after they have logged out and have been redirected to the login page, you can use a combination of `Navigator.pushReplacement()` and `Navigator.pushAndRemoveUntil()` methods.

Here's how you can implement it:

1. After the user logs out, use `Navigator.pushReplacement()` to replace the current page with the login page. This will ensure that the user cannot go back to the previous page using the back button.

```dart
Navigator.pushReplacement(
  context,
  MaterialPageRoute(builder: (context) => LoginPage()),
);
```

2. Once the user is logged in, use `Navigator.pushAndRemoveUntil()` to remove all the previous pages from the stack and add the new page to the stack. This will ensure that the user cannot go back to the login page using the back button.

```dart
Navigator.pushAndRemoveUntil(
  context,
  MaterialPageRoute(builder: (context) => HomePage()),
  (Route<dynamic> route) => false,
);
```

With this approach, the user will not be able to view any inner pages of the app after they have logged out and have been redirected to the login page.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To restrict the user from viewing inner pages of the app after logging out, you can use a technique called "route guarding". This involves checking whether the user is authenticated before allowing them to access certain pages.

One way to implement route guarding is to use a middleware function that checks the user's authentication status before allowing them to access a page. This middleware function can be added to the `onGenerateRoute` property of the `MaterialApp` widget.

Here's an example of how you can implement route guarding in your app:

1. Create a middleware function that checks the user's authentication status:

```dart
bool isAuthenticated = false;

void checkAuthenticationStatus(BuildContext context, String routeName) {
  if (!isAuthenticated && routeName != '/login') {
    Navigator.pushNamed(context, '/login');
  }
}
```

2. Add the middleware function to the `onGenerateRoute` property of the `MaterialApp` widget:

```dart
MaterialApp(
  onGenerateRoute: (settings) {
    checkAuthenticationStatus(context, settings.name);
    return MaterialPageRoute(builder: (context) => YourPage());
  },
);
```

This will check the user's authentication status before allowing them to access any page in your app, except for the login page. If the user is not authenticated, they will be redirected to the login page.

Note that this is just one way to implement route guarding in your app. There are other techniques and libraries that you can use to achieve the same result.

--------
