
# Post \#72954372 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72954372/)

## What is the right way to disable back button in flutter when one has reached the login page after logging out?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 842 (673/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-548

Created at 2022-07-12 14:56:16

Tags: `android` `flutter` `flutter-navigation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to restrict the user from viewing inner pages of the app after the user has logged out and has been redirected to the login page. What I know so far is the use of `Navigator.pop(context)` or `Navigator.of(context).pop()` to move back to a previous page. But this isn't fitting in the use case I have mentioned (or maybe I don't know).


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

It seems like you're trying to prevent users from navigating back to authenticated pages after they've logged out. This is a common security measure in many applications. 

In Flutter, you can achieve this by removing all previous routes from the navigation stack when you navigate the user to the login page. This way, there will be no pages for the user to navigate back to.

Here's how you can do it:

```dart
Navigator.of(context).pushAndRemoveUntil(
  MaterialPageRoute(builder: (context) => LoginPage()),
  (Route<dynamic> route) => false,
);
```

In this code, `pushAndRemoveUntil` pushes the `LoginPage` onto the navigation stack, and then removes all previous routes until the provided predicate returns true. In this case, we're using `(Route<dynamic> route) => false` to indicate that no routes should be left in the stack.

This will ensure that once the user is logged out and redirected to the login page, they cannot navigate back to any previous pages using the back button.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you are trying to prevent the user from navigating back to the app after logging out. This is a common issue in app development where you want to secure the app's data after the user logs out. 

In Flutter, you can achieve this by removing all the routes in the navigation stack and pushing the login page. This way, when the user presses the back button, they won't be able to navigate back to the inner pages of the app.

Here's how you can do it:

```dart
Navigator.of(context).pushAndRemoveUntil(
    MaterialPageRoute(builder: (context) => LoginPage()),
    (Route<dynamic> route) => false,
);
```

In the above code, `pushAndRemoveUntil` pushes the `LoginPage` and removes all the previous routes in the stack until the condition specified in the second parameter is satisfied. In this case, the condition is a function that always returns `false`, so it will remove all routes.

This will ensure that when the user logs out, they are taken to the `LoginPage` and cannot navigate back to any other page in the app.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In order to prevent the user from accessing inner pages of the app after logging out, you need to clear the navigation stack. This way, when the user presses the back button, they won't be able to navigate back to the previous pages.

In Flutter, you can use `pushAndRemoveUntil` method to push a new route and clear all the previous routes. Here's an example:

```dart
Navigator.of(context).pushAndRemoveUntil(
  MaterialPageRoute(builder: (BuildContext context) => LoginPage()),
  (Route<dynamic> route) => false,
);
```

In this code, `pushAndRemoveUntil` pushes the `LoginPage` and removes all the routes below it. The `(Route<dynamic> route) => false` part is a condition that specifies which routes to remove. In this case, it's set to `false`, which means all routes are removed.

This way, when the user logs out and is redirected to the login page, they won't be able to navigate back to the previous pages by pressing the back button.

--------
