
# Post \#65606207 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65606207/)

## How to make super constructor required in dart

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 3750 (550/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-547

Created at 2021-01-07 03:21:04

Tags: `flutter` `dart`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like the IDE to inform me that I need to construct super constructor in inherited widget's constructor. Say for example if I have abstract class like below
```
abstract class BaseClass {
  final String name;

  BaseClass({
    @required String name,
  }) : this.name = name;
}
```

I want the child class to know that I need to implement the super constructor. The below code throws at runtime but how do I make sure that it throws in build time or IDE lets me know before build?
```
class ChildClass extends BaseClass{}
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Dart, if a class extends another class, it must call the superclass's constructor either implicitly or explicitly. If the superclass doesn't have a default constructor (a constructor with no arguments), then you must manually call one of the superclass's constructors in the subclass.

In your case, `BaseClass` doesn't have a default constructor, so you must call its constructor in `ChildClass`. If you don't, Dart Analyzer should give you a compile-time error.

Here's how you can do it:

```dart
class ChildClass extends BaseClass {
  ChildClass({@required String name}) : super(name: name);
}
```

If you are not seeing this error in your IDE, make sure that you have Dart Analyzer enabled. In VS Code, you can do this by opening your settings (File > Preferences > Settings), then searching for "dart.analyze" and making sure that "Dart: Analyze With Lint" is checked. In Android Studio, Dart Analyzer should be enabled by default.

If Dart Analyzer is enabled and you're still not seeing the error, it might be a bug in the Dart plugin for your IDE. In that case, you might want to report it to the Dart team.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Dart, the IDE or the Dart analyzer doesn't currently have a built-in feature to enforce calling the super constructor in a derived class at compile time. However, you can use some workarounds to make sure you don't forget to call the super constructor.

1. **Comments**: You can add comments to your base class constructor to remind anyone who extends the class to call the super constructor.

```dart
abstract class BaseClass {
  final String name;

  /// When extending this class, remember to call super(name: ...);
  BaseClass({
    @required String name,
  }) : this.name = name;
}
```

2. **Asserts**: You can add an assert in the base class to check if the name is null. This will throw an error at runtime if the super constructor is not called, but it won't prevent the error at compile time.

```dart
abstract class BaseClass {
  final String name;

  BaseClass({
    @required String name,
  }) : assert(name != null), this.name = name;
}
```

3. **Linter rules**: Dart has a linter package that can enforce certain rules in your code. However, there's currently no rule that enforces calling the super constructor in a derived class.

Remember that Dart always calls the default constructor in the superclass if you don't explicitly call a constructor. In your case, since the base class doesn't have a default constructor (a constructor with no arguments), Dart can't call it automatically, and you have to call it manually in the derived class. If you don't, Dart throws an error at runtime.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Dart, if you have a class that extends another class and the superclass doesn't have a default constructor (a constructor without parameters), then you must call super in the subclass constructor, passing the necessary parameters. If you don't do this, you will get a compile-time error.

In your case, the `BaseClass` has a constructor that requires a `name` parameter. So, when you create a `ChildClass` that extends `BaseClass`, you must call the superclass constructor in the `ChildClass` constructor:

```dart
class ChildClass extends BaseClass {
  ChildClass(String name) : super(name: name);
}
```

If you try to compile the code without calling the superclass constructor, you will get a compile-time error. This is enforced by the Dart language itself, so you don't need to do anything special in your IDE to get this behavior.

However, if you want your IDE to show a warning or error before you try to compile the code, you can use a linter like `dartanalyzer` or `flutter analyze`. These tools can analyze your code and show warnings and errors directly in your IDE. You just need to make sure that your IDE is configured to use these tools. For example, in Visual Studio Code, you can enable Dart linting by opening the settings and setting `dart.analyze` to `true`.

--------
