
# Post \#68251452 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68251452/)

## Android Studio Emulator Tool Windows Not Show

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 2369 (592/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-550

Created at 2021-07-05 06:15:50

Tags: `android` `flutter` `android-studio` `android-virtual-device`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was creating a flutter project, but I want to run my AVD in the android studio window itself, I already select the option in "Settings-> Tools-> Emulator" and check the option that says "Launch in a tool windows" but it still executes me regardless of the emulator.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/qDBpq.png)
I've already done several unsuccessful searches, does anyone have any ideas?
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/AJu6d.png)
---Updated-----
Create a project in normal java and there if that window appears I think it is a problem in flutter or something similar.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of Android Studio installed. You can check for updates by going to "Help" > "Check for Updates".

2. Try creating a new AVD and see if it launches in the tool window. To create a new AVD, go to "Tools" > "AVD Manager" and click on the "Create Virtual Device" button.

3. Check if there are any updates available for the Flutter plugin. You can do this by going to "File" > "Settings" > "Plugins" and searching for "Flutter". If there is an update available, click on the "Update" button.

4. Try running the AVD from the command line using the "flutter emulators" command. To do this, open a terminal window and type "flutter emulators" to see a list of available emulators. Then, type "flutter emulators --launch <emulator_id>" to launch the emulator in the tool window.

5. If none of the above solutions work, try resetting Android Studio to its default settings. To do this, go to "File" > "Manage IDE Settings" > "Restore Default Settings". This will reset all settings to their default values, so make sure to back up any important settings before doing this.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of Android Studio and Flutter installed.

2. Try creating a new AVD and see if it launches in the tool window.

3. Check if there are any updates available for the Android Emulator plugin. You can do this by going to "Settings -> Plugins -> Installed" and checking for updates.

4. Try running the emulator from the command line using the "flutter emulators" command. This will launch the emulator in a separate window, but you can then drag it into the Android Studio window.

5. If none of the above solutions work, you can try using a third-party emulator like Genymotion or BlueStacks, which may work better with Flutter.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of Android Studio installed.

2. Try deleting your existing AVD and creating a new one. To do this, go to "AVD Manager" and click on the "Delete" button next to your existing AVD. Then, click on the "Create Virtual Device" button and follow the steps to create a new AVD.

3. Check if there are any updates available for the Flutter and Dart plugins. To do this, go to "Settings" > "Plugins" and search for "Flutter" and "Dart". If there are updates available, click on the "Update" button to install them.

4. Try running the AVD from the command line using the "flutter emulators" command. To do this, open a terminal window and type "flutter emulators" to see a list of available emulators. Then, type "flutter emulators --launch <emulator_id>" to launch the emulator in a tool window.

Hopefully, one of these solutions will work for you. Let me know if you have any further questions or issues.

--------
