
# Post \#61584229 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61584229/)

## Flutter error - Gradle task assembleDebug failed with exit code -1

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 28985 (234/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-577

Created at 2020-05-04 02:21:44

Tags: `android` `android-studio` `flutter` `dart` `visual-studio-code`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm new to flutter. I just created a new project in flutter and have not even altered the code.
And when I run the code I get the following error.

```
Launching lib\main.dart on SM A750F in debug mode...
Gradle task assembleDebug failed with exit code -1
Exited (sigterm)
```


I have no idea how to fix this, searched a number of ways

When I run flutter doctor I get this error,

```
Android toolchain - develop for Android devices (Android SDK version 29.0.2)
    X Android license status unknown.
      Try re-installing or updating your Android SDK Manager.
      See https://developer.android.com/studio/#downloads or visit https://flutter.dev/setup/#android-setup for detailed instructions.
```


I dont know if this has got anything to do with the error above.

build.gradle(app) 

```
def localProperties = new Properties()
def localPropertiesFile = rootProject.file('local.properties')
if (localPropertiesFile.exists()) {
    localPropertiesFile.withReader('UTF-8') { reader ->
        localProperties.load(reader)
    }
}

def flutterRoot = localProperties.getProperty('flutter.sdk')
if (flutterRoot == null) {
    throw new GradleException("Flutter SDK not found. Define location with flutter.sdk in the local.properties file.")
}

def flutterVersionCode = localProperties.getProperty('flutter.versionCode')
if (flutterVersionCode == null) {
    flutterVersionCode = '1'
}

def flutterVersionName = localProperties.getProperty('flutter.versionName')
if (flutterVersionName == null) {
    flutterVersionName = '1.0'
}

apply plugin: 'com.android.application'
apply from: "$flutterRoot/packages/flutter_tools/gradle/flutter.gradle"

android {
    compileSdkVersion 28

    lintOptions {
        disable 'InvalidPackage'
    }

    defaultConfig {
        // TODO: Specify your own unique Application ID (https://developer.android.com/studio/build/application-id.html).
        applicationId "com.dev.teamo"
        minSdkVersion 16
        targetSdkVersion 28
        versionCode flutterVersionCode.toInteger()
        versionName flutterVersionName
        testInstrumentationRunner "androidx.test.runner.AndroidJUnitRunner"
    }

    buildTypes {
        release {
            // TODO: Add your own signing config for the release build.
            // Signing with the debug keys for now, so `flutter run --release` works.
            signingConfig signingConfigs.debug
        }
    }
}

flutter {
    source '../..'
}

dependencies {
    testImplementation 'junit:junit:4.12'
    androidTestImplementation 'androidx.test:runner:1.1.1'
    androidTestImplementation 'androidx.test.espresso:espresso-core:3.1.1'
}
```


Thanks in advance


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are seeing indicates that the Gradle task `assembleDebug` failed with exit code -1. This could be caused by a number of issues, including problems with your Android SDK installation or configuration.

The error message you received when running `flutter doctor` suggests that there may be an issue with your Android SDK installation or configuration. Specifically, it indicates that the Android license status is unknown, and suggests that you try re-installing or updating your Android SDK Manager.

To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Open Android Studio and go to the SDK Manager (you can find it in the Welcome to Android Studio window, or in the File menu).
2. Make sure that the Android SDK version 29.0.2 is installed. If it is not, install it.
3. Go to the SDK Tools tab and make sure that the Android SDK Build-Tools version 28.0.3 is installed. If it is not, install it.
4. Accept the Android SDK licenses by running the following command in your terminal: `flutter doctor --android-licenses`.
5. Restart Android Studio and try running your Flutter project again.

If the issue persists, you can try running `flutter clean` to clean the build cache, and then running `flutter run` again.

If none of these steps work, you may need to provide more information about the error message you are seeing, such as the full stack trace or any other error messages that appear in the console.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you are seeing is not very specific, so it could be caused by a number of things. However, the error message you see when you run `flutter doctor` is likely related to the issue.

To fix the Android license status unknown error, you can try running the following command in your terminal:

```
flutter doctor --android-licenses
```

This will prompt you to accept the Android SDK licenses, which you need to do in order to use the Android SDK with Flutter.

If that doesn't work, you can try updating your Android SDK Manager by following the instructions in the error message. Once you have updated your Android SDK Manager, run `flutter doctor` again to see if the error has been resolved.

If you are still experiencing issues, you can try running `flutter clean` to clean your project and then try running it again. If that doesn't work, you can try deleting the `build` folder in your project directory and then running the project again.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you are getting is not very specific, so it could be caused by a number of things. However, based on the information you provided, it seems like the issue could be related to your Android SDK installation.

First, try running `flutter doctor --android-licenses` to accept the Android SDK licenses. If this does not work, try updating your Android SDK by following the instructions in the error message you received when running `flutter doctor`.

If updating your Android SDK does not solve the issue, try running `flutter clean` to clean the project and then run `flutter run` again.

If none of these solutions work, please provide more information about the error message you are getting and any other relevant details about your environment.

--------
