
# Post \#50171766 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50171766/)

## Flutter Pub: Expected a key while parsing a block mapping. path:

**Vote**: 97 (62/702) **Views**: 126817 (69/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-570

Created at 2018-05-04 09:35:54

Tags: `android` `path` `mapping` `flutter` `dart-pub`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm using JSON file and register in `Pubspec.ymal` but showing error and also when I use an image and register it, the same error also occurs. Maybe there is a formatting mistake in it, but don't know what the problem is.this is the [doc](https://www.dartlang.org/tools/pub/pubspec) I followed.

> .
  
      

This is my `pubspec.yaml` file

```
name: jsondata description: A new Flutter application.

  dependencies:  

  flutter:

  sdk: flutter

  cupertino_icons: ^0.1.0

  dev_dependencies:   

 flutter_test:

      sdk: flutter

    flutter:

    uses-material-design: true

      assets:

       - loadjson/person.json
```


[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/a85Kp.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue seems to be with the indentation in your `pubspec.yaml` file. YAML files are sensitive to indentation and spaces. Here is the corrected version of your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
name: jsondata 
description: A new Flutter application.

dependencies:  
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  cupertino_icons: ^0.1.0

dev_dependencies:   
  flutter_test:
    sdk: flutter

flutter:
  uses-material-design: true
  assets:
    - loadjson/person.json
```

Please make sure that the `flutter:` and `assets:` fields are not indented under `dev_dependencies:`. Also, the path to your assets should be indented under `assets:`. 

After correcting the `pubspec.yaml` file, run `flutter pub get` in your terminal to update your dependencies.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue seems to be with the indentation in your `pubspec.yaml` file. YAML files are sensitive to indentation and spaces, so you need to be careful with the structure. 

Here's the corrected version of your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
name: jsondata 
description: A new Flutter application.

dependencies:  
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  cupertino_icons: ^0.1.0

dev_dependencies:   
  flutter_test:
    sdk: flutter

flutter:
  uses-material-design: true
  assets:
    - loadjson/person.json
```

In YAML, lists are denoted by a hyphen (-) and indentation. Make sure that the `assets:` field is indented correctly under `flutter:` and the path to your json file is indented under `assets:`. Also, ensure that there are no trailing spaces after the path to your json file.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The formatting of your `pubspec.yaml` file is incorrect. The `flutter:` and `assets:` fields are not properly indented. Here's the corrected version:

```yaml
name: jsondata 
description: A new Flutter application.

dependencies:  
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  cupertino_icons: ^0.1.0

dev_dependencies:   
  flutter_test:
    sdk: flutter

flutter:
  uses-material-design: true
  assets:
    - loadjson/person.json
```

In YAML files, indentation is crucial. It's used to determine the structure of the data. The `flutter:` and `assets:` fields should be at the same level of indentation, and the path to your assets should be indented under the `assets:` field. 

Also, ensure that the path to your JSON file is correct and that the file exists at that location. The path is relative to the location of the `pubspec.yaml` file. If your file is not in the `loadjson` directory at the root of your project, you'll need to update the path.

--------
