
# Post \#53394504 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53394504/)

## Flutter stuck at Installing build\app\outputs\apk\app.apk

**Vote**: 94 (66/702) **Views**: 93672 (89/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-584

Created at 2018-11-20 13:51:31

Tags: `flutter` `dart` `apk` `flutter-release` `flutter-android`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When I run:
```
$ flutter run
```

I'm getting a prompt on my mobile device asking if I want to install the app on my device. I give yes, then nothing happens!
It's stuck here:
```
Launching lib/main.dart on POCO F1 in debug mode...
Initializing gradle...                                           1.5s
Resolving dependencies...                                        9.2s
Gradle task 'assembleDebug'...                                  22.9s
Built build\app\outputs\apk\debug\app-debug.apk.
Installing build\app\outputs\apk\app.apk...                     14.9s
```

Then nothing.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure that your mobile device is connected to the same network as your computer. If they are not on the same network, the installation process may fail.

2. Check if your mobile device has enough storage space to install the app. If there is not enough space, the installation process may fail.

3. Try restarting both your computer and mobile device and then try running the command again.

4. If none of the above solutions work, try uninstalling the app from your mobile device and then try running the command again.

5. If the issue persists, try running the command with the `--verbose` flag to get more detailed information about the installation process. This may help you identify the issue and find a solution.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure that your mobile device is connected to the same network as your computer. Sometimes, if the devices are on different networks, the installation process can fail.

2. Check that your mobile device has enough storage space to install the app. If the device is low on storage, the installation process may fail.

3. Try restarting both your computer and your mobile device. This can sometimes resolve issues with the installation process.

4. If none of the above solutions work, try running the app on a different mobile device to see if the issue is specific to your current device.

5. If you are still having issues, try running the app in release mode instead of debug mode. To do this, run the following command instead of `flutter run`:

```
flutter run --release
```

This will build the app in release mode, which can sometimes resolve issues with the installation process.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure that your mobile device is connected to the same network as your computer.

2. Check if your mobile device has enough storage space to install the app.

3. Try restarting both your computer and mobile device.

4. Try running the app on a different mobile device to see if the issue persists.

5. Check if your mobile device has any pending software updates and install them if necessary.

6. Try running the app in release mode by running the command `flutter run --release` to see if that resolves the issue.

7. If none of the above solutions work, try uninstalling the app from your mobile device and then reinstalling it using the command `flutter run`.

--------
