
# Post \#59884126 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59884126/)

## How to use multiple Consumers for a single widget in flutter Provider

**Vote**: 41 (153/702) **Views**: 20799 (296/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-534

Created at 2020-01-23 17:26:06

Tags: `flutter` `flutter-provider`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I can't wrap my head around using  for a single widget with provider? Suppose my widget is CurvedNavigationBar and I have 4 items in that widget. I also have 4 different classes that extend ChangeNotifier and 

? I looked at the documentation and could not found such an example.. is this even possible? I found that Consumer has a builder method, so that means you can build a widget  

Should I rather have a single class that extends ChangeNotifier and then update values in that widget and uses only a single Consumer to listen for updated values?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, it is possible to use Provider with multiple ChangeNotifier classes in a single widget. You can use the MultiProvider widget to provide multiple instances of ChangeNotifier classes to your widget tree. Here's an example:

```
return MultiProvider(
  providers: [
    ChangeNotifierProvider<FirstNotifier>(create: (_) => FirstNotifier()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<SecondNotifier>(create: (_) => SecondNotifier()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<ThirdNotifier>(create: (_) => ThirdNotifier()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<FourthNotifier>(create: (_) => FourthNotifier()),
  ],
  child: CurvedNavigationBar(
    items: [
      // your items here
    ],
    onTap: (index) {
      // update the corresponding notifier here
    },
  ),
);
```

In this example, we are providing instances of four different ChangeNotifier classes to the widget tree using the MultiProvider widget. You can then access these notifiers in your CurvedNavigationBar widget and update them accordingly.

Alternatively, you can also use a single ChangeNotifier class and update values in that class based on the selected item in the CurvedNavigationBar. This approach may be simpler and easier to manage, especially if you don't need to manage complex state across multiple notifiers.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, it is possible to use Provider with multiple ChangeNotifier classes for a single widget. You can use the MultiProvider widget to provide multiple instances of ChangeNotifier classes to your widget tree.

Here's an example of how you can use MultiProvider with CurvedNavigationBar:

```
return MultiProvider(
  providers: [
    ChangeNotifierProvider<Notifier1>(create: (_) => Notifier1()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<Notifier2>(create: (_) => Notifier2()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<Notifier3>(create: (_) => Notifier3()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<Notifier4>(create: (_) => Notifier4()),
  ],
  child: MaterialApp(
    home: Scaffold(
      bottomNavigationBar: CurvedNavigationBar(
        items: [
          // your navigation items
        ],
        onTap: (index) {
          // update the values in the corresponding notifier class
          switch (index) {
            case 0:
              Provider.of<Notifier1>(context, listen: false).updateValue();
              break;
            case 1:
              Provider.of<Notifier2>(context, listen: false).updateValue();
              break;
            case 2:
              Provider.of<Notifier3>(context, listen: false).updateValue();
              break;
            case 3:
              Provider.of<Notifier4>(context, listen: false).updateValue();
              break;
          }
        },
      ),
    ),
  ),
);
```

In this example, each time a navigation item is tapped, the corresponding notifier class is updated. You can then use Consumer widgets to listen for changes in each notifier class and update the UI accordingly.

Alternatively, you can also use a single class that extends ChangeNotifier and update values in that class. This approach can simplify your code and make it easier to manage state. However, if you have multiple unrelated pieces of state, it may be better to use multiple ChangeNotifier classes.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, it is possible to use Provider for a single widget with multiple ChangeNotifier classes. You can use the MultiProvider widget to provide multiple instances of ChangeNotifier classes to your widget tree.

Here's an example:

```
return MultiProvider(
  providers: [
    ChangeNotifierProvider<Notifier1>(create: (_) => Notifier1()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<Notifier2>(create: (_) => Notifier2()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<Notifier3>(create: (_) => Notifier3()),
    ChangeNotifierProvider<Notifier4>(create: (_) => Notifier4()),
  ],
  child: CurvedNavigationBar(
    items: [
      // your items here
    ],
    onTap: (index) {
      // update the corresponding notifier here
    },
  ),
);
```

In this example, we're using the MultiProvider widget to provide instances of Notifier1, Notifier2, Notifier3, and Notifier4 to our widget tree. Then, we're using the CurvedNavigationBar widget and updating the corresponding notifier in the onTap method.

Alternatively, you could also use a single class that extends ChangeNotifier and update values in that class. This would simplify your code and make it easier to manage. You would only need to use a single Consumer to listen for updated values.

Ultimately, the decision on whether to use multiple ChangeNotifier classes or a single class depends on the complexity of your app and your personal preference.

--------
