
# Post \#54792056 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54792056/)

## Add/Subtract months/years to date in dart?

**Vote**: 113 (49/702) **Views**: 112431 (73/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-562

Created at 2019-02-20 17:22:39

Tags: `flutter` `date` `dart` `subtraction`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I saw that in dart there is a class Duration but it cant be used add/subtract years or month. How did you managed this issue, I need to subtract 6 months from an date. Is there something like moment.js for dart or something around?
Thank you


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, Dart's `Duration` class only supports time durations in terms of days, hours, minutes, seconds, and microseconds. For more complex date manipulations like adding or subtracting months or years, you can use the `DateTime` class along with the `intl` package.

Here's an example of how you can subtract 6 months from a date:

```dart
import 'package:intl/intl.dart';

void main() {
  DateTime now = DateTime.now();
  DateTime sixMonthsAgo = DateTime(now.year, now.month - 6, now.day);

  print(DateFormat('yyyy-MM-dd').format(sixMonthsAgo));
}
```

In this code, we're creating a new `DateTime` object with the current year and day, but with the month subtracted by 6. Note that Dart's `DateTime` constructor automatically adjusts the year if the month is less than 1 or greater than 12.

The `intl` package also provides a lot of other useful features for internationalization, like formatting dates, numbers, and strings.

If you want a more comprehensive date manipulation library similar to moment.js, you might want to check out the `date_utils` package. It provides a lot of additional functionality for working with dates in Dart.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, Dart does not have built-in support for adding or subtracting years or months from a DateTime object. However, you can use the `intl` package in Dart to perform these operations. The `intl` package provides date and time manipulation capabilities similar to those in moment.js.

Here's an example of how you can subtract 6 months from a date:

```dart
import 'package:intl/intl.dart';

void main() {
  DateTime now = DateTime.now();
  DateTime sixMonthsAgo = DateTime(now.year, now.month - 6, now.day);
  
  print(DateFormat('yyyy-MM-dd').format(sixMonthsAgo));
}
```

In this example, we're creating a new DateTime object with the current year and day, but with the month subtracted by 6. Note that Dart's DateTime constructor automatically adjusts the year when the month is less than 1.

Also, remember to add the `intl` package to your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  intl: ^0.17.0
```

Then, run `flutter pub get` to fetch the package.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, Dart's `Duration` class only supports days, hours, minutes, seconds, and microseconds. For more complex date manipulations such as adding/subtracting years or months, you can use the `DateTime` class in combination with packages like `intl` or `time_machine`.

Here's an example of how you can subtract 6 months from a date:

```dart
import 'package:intl/intl.dart';

void main() {
  DateTime now = DateTime.now();
  DateTime sixMonthsAgo = DateTime(now.year, now.month - 6, now.day);
  
  print(DateFormat('yyyy-MM-dd').format(sixMonthsAgo));
}
```

In this example, we're creating a new `DateTime` object with the current year and day, but with the month subtracted by 6. The `DateFormat` class from the `intl` package is used to format the date as a string.

Please note that if the current month is less than 6, the `DateTime` constructor will correctly handle this by subtracting from the year. For example, if the current date is 2022-03-01, six months ago will be correctly calculated as 2021-09-01.

If you need more advanced date/time manipulation (like in moment.js), you might want to look into the `time_machine` package. It's a port of the popular Noda Time library from .NET and provides a comprehensive API for date and time manipulation.

--------
