
# Post \#55635663 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55635663/)

## Invalid Constant Value using variable as parameter

**Vote**: 132 (38/702) **Views**: 124441 (71/702) 

**Internal ID** \#3-12-578

Created at 2019-04-11 15:02:32

Tags: `dart` `flutter`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Mobile and Desktop Apps`

Language: `dart` (full parsed tag list: `dart`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
var textSize = 10.0;
// or
double textSize = 10.0;
```


into `Text` Widget of Flutter 

```
child: const Text('Calculate Client Fees',
                   style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),)
```


Here it is giving error 

> Invalid Constant Value

Do we have to compulsory use `const` value? Why can not we use `var` or `double`?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

In Flutter, when using the `const` keyword, the value must be known at compile-time. This means that the value cannot be changed at runtime. 

In your example, you are trying to use a variable `textSize` as the value for `fontSize` in the `TextStyle` of the `Text` widget. Since `textSize` is not a constant value, it cannot be used in a `const` context.

To fix this error, you can remove the `const` keyword from the `Text` widget and use the `var` or `double` keyword for `textSize`. For example:

```
var textSize = 10.0;

child: Text('Calculate Client Fees',
           style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),
         )
```

Alternatively, if you want to use the `const` keyword, you can replace the variable `textSize` with a constant value. For example:

```
const double textSize = 10.0;

child: const Text('Calculate Client Fees',
                  style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),
                )
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

In Flutter, the `const` keyword is used to create compile-time constants. When you use `const` with `Text` widget, it means that the `TextStyle` object created using `TextStyle(fontSize: textSize)` is a compile-time constant. 

However, when you use `var` or `double` to declare `textSize`, it is not a compile-time constant. It is a runtime variable whose value can change during the execution of the program. Therefore, you cannot use `var` or `double` with `const` in this case.

To fix the error, you can remove the `const` keyword from `Text` widget and use the following code:

```
child: Text('Calculate Client Fees',
                   style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),)
```

This will create a `TextStyle` object at runtime with the `fontSize` value stored in the `textSize` variable.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

In Flutter, when defining a `const` value, the value must be known at compile-time. This means that the value cannot be changed at runtime. 

In your code, you are trying to use a non-constant variable `textSize` as the value for `fontSize` in the `TextStyle` of the `Text` widget. Since `textSize` is not a constant, it cannot be used in a `const` context.

To fix this error, you can either define `textSize` as a constant:

```
const double textSize = 10.0;
```

Or, you can remove the `const` keyword from the `Text` widget:

```
child: Text('Calculate Client Fees',
            style: TextStyle(fontSize: textSize),)
```

In this case, you can use `var` or `double` to define the variable `textSize`, but it must be a constant value if you want to use it in a `const` context.

--------
