
# Post \#55054337 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55054337/)

## Cypress: run only one test

**Vote**: 231 (13/702) **Views**: 154182 (49/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-66

Created at 2019-03-07 23:14:51

Tags: `javascript` `automated-tests` `cypress` `e2e-testing`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to toggle only running one test, so I don't have to wait for my other tests to see the result of one test.

Currently, I comment out my other tests, but this is really annoying.

Is there a way to toggle only running one test in `Cypress`?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can use the `.only` method in Cypress to run only a specific test. 

To do this, simply add `.only` after the `it` or `describe` block that you want to run exclusively. 

For example:

```
describe.only('My exclusive test', () => {
  it('should do something', () => {
    // test code here
  });
});
```

This will run only the test block with the `describe.only` method and skip all other tests. 

Just remember to remove the `.only` method once you're done testing that specific block, so that all tests can run again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can use the `it.only()` function in Cypress to run only one test. 

Here's an example:

```javascript
describe('My test suite', () => {
  it.only('should run only this test', () => {
    // test code here
  })

  it('should not run this test', () => {
    // test code here
  })

  it('should also not run this test', () => {
    // test code here
  })
})
```

In this example, only the first test with `it.only()` will run, and the other two tests will be skipped. 

You can also use the `describe.only()` function to run only a specific test suite. 

```javascript
describe.only('My test suite', () => {
  it('should run this test', () => {
    // test code here
  })

  it('should also run this test', () => {
    // test code here
  })
})

describe('Another test suite', () => {
  it('should not run this test', () => {
    // test code here
  })
})
```

In this example, only the tests in the first `describe` block will run, and the test in the second `describe` block will be skipped.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can use the `.only` method in Cypress to run only a specific test. 

To do this, simply add `.only` after the `it` or `describe` block that you want to run exclusively. For example:

```
describe.only('My exclusive test', () => {
  it('should do something', () => {
    // test code here
  });
});
```

This will run only the test block that has the `.only` method attached to it, and skip all other tests in the suite.

Just remember to remove the `.only` method once you're done testing that specific block, so that all tests can run again.

--------
