
# Post \#50306703 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50306703/)

## How to remove package using Angular CLI?

**Vote**: 95 (65/702) **Views**: 225781 (33/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-52

Created at 2018-05-12 13:22:07

Tags: `angular` `angular-cli`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Angular 6 has new CLI command `ng add <package>`.

How can I remove the package using Angular CLI?

UPDATE

[documentation](https://blog.angular.io/version-6-of-angular-now-available-cc56b0efa7a4)

> `ng add` will use your package manager to download new dependencies and invoke an installation script (implemented as a schematic) which can update your project with configuration changes, add additional dependencies (e.g. polyfills), or scaffold package-specific initialization code

It is not the same `npm install <package>`

I was trying to use `ng rm` but it is not working yet. 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To remove a package installed using `ng add`, you can follow these steps:

1. Remove the package using your package manager (npm or yarn). For example, to remove the `@angular/material` package, you can run:

   ```
   npm uninstall @angular/material
   ```

2. Remove any configuration changes made by the package. For example, if you installed `@angular/material`, you may have added some styles to your `styles.scss` file. Remove those styles.

3. Remove any code generated by the package. For example, if you installed `@angular/material`, you may have some components or modules that were generated by the package. Remove those files.

4. If the package added any dependencies to your `package.json` file, remove them manually.

Note that `ng rm` is not a valid command in Angular CLI yet. It may be added in a future version.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To remove a package installed using `ng add`, you can follow these steps:

1. Open the `angular.json` file in the root directory of your project.
2. Look for the `"schematics"` property and find the entry for the package you want to remove.
3. Remove the entire entry for that package.
4. Save the `angular.json` file.
5. Run `npm uninstall <package>` to remove the package from your project's dependencies.

Note that removing a package installed using `ng add` may not completely remove all of its configuration changes or initialization code. You may need to manually remove any remaining files or configuration changes related to the package.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To remove a package installed using `ng add`, you can follow these steps:

1. Open the `angular.json` file in the root directory of your project.
2. Find the `schematics` property under the `@schematics/angular` section.
3. Locate the package you want to remove and delete its entry.
4. Save the changes to the `angular.json` file.
5. Run `npm uninstall <package>` to remove the package from your project.

Note that removing a package installed using `ng add` may not completely remove all of its dependencies. You may need to manually remove any remaining dependencies or files related to the package.

--------
