
# Post \#71420974 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71420974/)

## Angular make subscribe to wait for response

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 15775 (344/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-38

Created at 2022-03-10 08:31:10

Tags: `javascript` `angular` `typescript` `asynchronous`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to subscribe to an Observable and assign some data from the response, but somehow my code it's not waiting for the response. Basically the console.log(this.newIds) is runned first and  is always empty because the subscribe doesn't wait for response to come from the backend. How I can force my code to wait for the response to come?
```
this.repository.getById(Ids).subscribe((response) => {
      console.log(response);
      this.newIds = response.map((id) => {
        return id;
      });
    });
    console.log(this.newIds);
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're experiencing is due to the asynchronous nature of Observables in JavaScript. The `subscribe` method is non-blocking, meaning that it will not wait for the Observable to complete before moving on to the next line of code.

In your case, `console.log(this.newIds);` is being executed before the Observable has a chance to complete and assign the new value to `this.newIds`.

To solve this, you can move the `console.log(this.newIds);` inside the `subscribe` block, like this:

```javascript
this.repository.getById(Ids).subscribe((response) => {
  console.log(response);
  this.newIds = response.map((id) => {
    return id;
  });
  console.log(this.newIds); // Moved inside the subscribe block
});
```

Now, `console.log(this.newIds);` will only be executed after the Observable has completed and `this.newIds` has been assigned the new value.

Remember, when dealing with Observables or Promises in JavaScript, any code that depends on the result of an asynchronous operation should be placed inside the `subscribe` or `then` block, respectively.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're facing is due to the asynchronous nature of Observables in JavaScript. When you subscribe to an Observable, the code doesn't wait for the Observable to complete before moving on to the next line of code. This is why `console.log(this.newIds);` is being executed before the Observable has completed and `this.newIds` has been assigned.

To solve this, you should move the `console.log(this.newIds);` inside the subscription callback, like so:

```javascript
this.repository.getById(Ids).subscribe((response) => {
  console.log(response);
  this.newIds = response.map((id) => {
    return id;
  });
  console.log(this.newIds); // Moved inside the subscription
});
```

Now, `console.log(this.newIds);` will only be executed after the Observable has completed and `this.newIds` has been assigned.

Remember, when dealing with asynchronous operations in JavaScript (like Promises, Observables, etc.), any code that depends on the result of the asynchronous operation should be placed inside the callback function.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue you're facing is due to the asynchronous nature of Observables in JavaScript. The `subscribe` method does not block the execution of the code that follows it. This means that the `console.log(this.newIds);` line is executed before the Observable has a chance to complete and assign the response to `this.newIds`.

To ensure that you're logging `this.newIds` after it has been assigned the response, you should place the `console.log(this.newIds);` inside the `subscribe` block:

```javascript
this.repository.getById(Ids).subscribe((response) => {
  console.log(response);
  this.newIds = response.map((id) => {
    return id;
  });
  console.log(this.newIds); // Moved inside the subscribe block
});
```

This way, `console.log(this.newIds);` will only be executed after the Observable has completed and `this.newIds` has been assigned the response.

Remember, when dealing with Observables or Promises in JavaScript, any code that depends on the result of an asynchronous operation should be placed inside the `subscribe` or `then` block, respectively.

--------
