
# Post \#71063619 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71063619/)

## React and Tailwind CSS: dynamically generated classes are not being applied

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 12717 (386/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-73

Created at 2022-02-10 10:39:14

Tags: `reactjs` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm just learning React and Tailwind CSS and had a strange experience with CSS grid using Tailwind classes. I've made the buttons for a calculator, with the last Button spanning two columns:

```
export default function App() {
  return (
    <div className="flex min-h-screen items-center justify-center bg-blue-400">
      <Calculator />
    </div>
  );
}
```


```
import { IoBackspaceOutline } from "react-icons/io5";

export const Calculator = () => {
  return (
    <div className="grid grid-cols-4 grid-rows-5 gap-2">
      <Button>AC</Button>
      <Button>
        <IoBackspaceOutline size={26} />
      </Button>
      <Button>%</Button>
      <Button>รท</Button>
      <Button>7</Button>
      <Button>8</Button>
      <Button>9</Button>
      <Button>x</Button>
      <Button>4</Button>
      <Button>5</Button>
      <Button>6</Button>
      <Button>-</Button>
      <Button>1</Button>
      <Button>2</Button>
      <Button>3</Button>
      <Button>+</Button>
      <Button>0</Button>
      <Button>.</Button>
      <Button colSpan={2}>=</Button>
    </div>
  );
};

const Button = ({ colSpan = 1, rowSpan = 1, children }) => {
  return (
    <div
      className={`col-span-${colSpan} row-span-${rowSpan} bg-white p-3 rounded`}
    >
      <div className="flex items-center justify-center">{children}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

This doesn't work (tested in Chrome):
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/W2M9X.png)
Now here comes the weird part. I replaced the returned JSX from the App component with HTML from a Tailwind tutorial and deleted it again.
```
<div className="bg-blue-400 text-blue-400 min-h-screen flex items-center justify-center">
  <div className="grid grid-cols-3 gap-2">
    <div className="col-span-2 bg-white p-10 rounded">1</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">2</div>
    <div className="row-span-3 bg-white p-10 rounded">3</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">4</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">5</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">6</div>
    <div className="col-span-2 bg-white p-10 rounded">7</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">8</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">9</div>
  </div>
</div>
```

After I Ctrl-Z'd a bunch of times, so I had only the previous code, my button suddenly spans two columns as intended:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/WAkNA.png)
I checked to make sure that there were no changes in the code:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/7oDDw.png)
My friend even cloned [my repo](https://github.com/asgervelling/col-span-bug/), followed the same steps and got the same result.
He suspects that it has something to do with the variable classNames in my Button component with regards to Tailwind's JIT compiler, but none of us can pinpoint the error.
Am I using variable CSS classes wrong?
This has been a WTF moment. What could be the reason for this?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It's possible that the issue is related to Tailwind's JIT compiler, which dynamically generates CSS classes based on the classes used in your HTML or JSX. When you added the HTML from the Tailwind tutorial, it's possible that the JIT compiler generated the necessary CSS classes for your Button component to work correctly.

To test this theory, you could try running your code with the JIT compiler disabled. You can do this by adding the following line to your `tailwind.config.js` file:

```
module.exports = {
  mode: 'jit',
  purge: [],
  // ...
  corePlugins: {
    preflight: false,
  },
};
```

This will disable the JIT compiler and use the pre-compiled CSS instead. If the issue goes away with the JIT compiler disabled, then it's likely that the issue is related to the JIT compiler not generating the necessary CSS classes for your Button component.

If that's the case, you could try adding the necessary CSS classes manually to your `tailwind.config.js` file, or you could try using a different approach to styling your components, such as CSS modules or styled components.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It's possible that the issue is related to Tailwind's JIT compiler. When using dynamic class names with the JIT compiler, it can sometimes take a few moments for the changes to take effect. This could explain why the button suddenly started spanning two columns after you reverted to the original code.

One way to test this theory would be to try disabling the JIT compiler and see if the issue persists. You can do this by adding the following line to your `tailwind.config.js` file:

```
module.exports = {
  mode: 'jit',
  purge: [],
  darkMode: false, // or 'media' or 'class'
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  variants: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [],
  corePlugins: {
    preflight: false,
  },
}
```

This will disable the JIT compiler and force Tailwind to generate all of the CSS classes up front. If the issue goes away with the JIT compiler disabled, then it's likely that the issue was related to the JIT compiler not updating the CSS classes quickly enough.

If the issue persists even with the JIT compiler disabled, then it's possible that there's a bug in your code or in Tailwind itself. In that case, you may want to try simplifying your code and see if you can isolate the issue.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It's possible that the issue is related to Tailwind's JIT compiler. When you use a variable in a class name, Tailwind's JIT compiler needs to know the value of the variable at build time in order to generate the correct CSS. However, in your case, the value of `colSpan` is only known at runtime, which could cause issues with the JIT compiler.

One possible solution is to use a static class name for the button that spans two columns, instead of using a variable. For example, you could use the class name `col-span-2` directly in the JSX:

```
<Button className="col-span-2">=</Button>
```

Alternatively, you could try using the `tw` function from the `twin.macro` library to generate the class name dynamically at build time:

```
import tw from 'twin.macro';

const Button = ({ colSpan = 1, rowSpan = 1, children }) => {
  const className = tw`col-span-${colSpan} row-span-${rowSpan} bg-white p-3 rounded`;
  return (
    <div className={className}>
      <div className="flex items-center justify-center">{children}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

This should generate the correct CSS at build time, without relying on the JIT compiler to generate it at runtime.

--------
