
# Post \#64933543 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64933543/)

## Parsing error: Cannot read file '.../tsconfig.json'.eslint

**Vote**: 228 (15/702) **Views**: 151624 (50/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-46

Created at 2020-11-20 16:51:35

Tags: `node.js` `typescript` `eslint` `typescript-eslint`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

The error `Parsing error: Cannot read file '.../tsconfig.json'.eslint` shows in all `.ts` files in the `src` folder including `index.ts`.
I have no idea how to set up configs. The issue just shows a red line and makes the file red. However, everything compiles and run fine. The entire Node project was created using the firebase CLI.
`tsconfig.json` file:
```
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "module": "commonjs",
    "noImplicitReturns": true,
    "noUnusedLocals": true,
    "outDir": "lib",
    "sourceMap": true,
    "strict": true,
    "target": "es2017"
  },
  "compileOnSave": true,
  "include": [
    "src"
  ]
}
```

`.eslintrc.js` file:
```
module.exports = {
  env: {
    browser: true,
    es6: true,
    node: true,
  },
  extends: [
    "plugin:import/errors",
    "plugin:import/warnings",
    "plugin:import/typescript",
  ],
  parser: "@typescript-eslint/parser",
  parserOptions: {
    project: "tsconfig.json",
    sourceType: "module",
  },
  plugins: [
    "@typescript-eslint",
    "import",
  ],
  rules: {
    "@typescript-eslint/adjacent-overload-signatures": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-empty-function": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-empty-interface": "warn",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-floating-promises": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-namespace": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-unnecessary-type-assertion": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/prefer-for-of": "warn",
    "@typescript-eslint/triple-slash-reference": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/unified-signatures": "warn",
    "comma-dangle": "warn",
    "constructor-super": "error",
    eqeqeq: ["warn", "always"],
    "import/no-deprecated": "warn",
    "import/no-extraneous-dependencies": "error",
    "import/no-unassigned-import": "warn",
    "no-cond-assign": "error",
    "no-duplicate-case": "error",
    "no-duplicate-imports": "error",
    "no-empty": [
      "error",
      {
        allowEmptyCatch: true,
      },
    ],
    "no-invalid-this": "error",
    "no-new-wrappers": "error",
    "no-param-reassign": "error",
    "no-redeclare": "error",
    "no-sequences": "error",
    "no-shadow": [
      "error",
      {
        hoist: "all",
      },
    ],
    "no-throw-literal": "error",
    "no-unsafe-finally": "error",
    "no-unused-labels": "error",
    "no-var": "warn",
    "no-void": "error",
    "prefer-const": "warn",
  },
  settings: {
    jsdoc: {
      tagNamePreference: {
        returns: "return",
      },
    },
  },
};
```

I had tried restarting VScode, clearing the cache, and all to no avail. I am guessing I need to change some of the paths but I am not very good at changing the config files so I don't want to accidentally break the entire project.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like there is an issue with the ESLint configuration file. The error message indicates that ESLint is unable to read the `tsconfig.json` file. 

To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Make sure that the `tsconfig.json` file is located in the root directory of your project.

2. Check that the path to the `tsconfig.json` file in the `parserOptions` section of the `.eslintrc.js` file is correct. It should be relative to the location of the `.eslintrc.js` file. In your case, it should be `"project": "./tsconfig.json"`.

3. If the above steps do not work, you can try adding the following line to the `parserOptions` section of the `.eslintrc.js` file: `"tsconfigRootDir": "./"`. This tells ESLint to look for the `tsconfig.json` file in the root directory of your project.

4. If none of the above steps work, you can try reinstalling the ESLint and TypeScript packages by running the following command in your terminal: `npm install eslint @typescript-eslint/parser @typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin typescript --save-dev`.

After making these changes, restart your VSCode editor and see if the error message disappears.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like the issue is with ESLint not being able to find the `tsconfig.json` file. You can try updating the `parserOptions` in your `.eslintrc.js` file to include the path to your `tsconfig.json` file like this:

```
parserOptions: {
  project: "./tsconfig.json",
  sourceType: "module",
},
```

Make sure that the path to your `tsconfig.json` file is correct. If it's located in a different directory, you'll need to update the path accordingly.

After making this change, restart VSCode and see if the error goes away. If it doesn't, you can try running `npm install` to make sure all dependencies are up to date. If the error still persists, you may need to consult the Firebase documentation or reach out to their support team for further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like the issue is with the ESLint configuration file. The `tsconfig.json` file is being referenced in the `parserOptions` section of the `.eslintrc.js` file, but it seems like ESLint is unable to find the `tsconfig.json` file.

To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Make sure that the `tsconfig.json` file is located in the root directory of your project.

2. In the `.eslintrc.js` file, update the `parserOptions` section to include the full path to the `tsconfig.json` file. For example:

```
parserOptions: {
  project: "./tsconfig.json",
  sourceType: "module",
},
```

3. Save the `.eslintrc.js` file and restart VSCode.

This should resolve the issue and the red lines should disappear. If you still see the red lines, try running the ESLint command manually to see if there are any errors:

```
npx eslint src
```

This command will run ESLint on the `src` directory and show any errors or warnings. If there are any errors related to the `tsconfig.json` file, you can try updating the path in the ESLint configuration file again.

--------
