
# Post \#69601082 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69601082/)

## React Native - Change button color on focus

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 2856 (575/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-104

Created at 2021-10-17 03:21:25

Tags: `android` `react-native`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm using the `Button` component from React Native and I need to change the color of the button when the button is focused with a TV remote (Amazon Fire Stick). I don't see any focus listeners available for the button. Is there anyway to achieve this functionality? Here is my code:
```
<Button disabled={props.loading} styles={styles.button} title="1" onPress={() => {props.addNumber(1)}}/>
```

I looked at the `TouchableHighlight` component but it won't work because I need the color to change when the user has focused on the button before the button is clicked. By default, the opacity change is so small that it's hard to tell the button is currently focused.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

React Native's `Button` component is quite limited in terms of customization. It doesn't support focus events out of the box. However, you can use the `TouchableHighlight` or `TouchableOpacity` components to achieve this functionality. 

You can use the `onFocus` and `onBlur` events to change the style of the button when it is focused or blurred. These events are not officially documented in React Native, but they work on TV devices. 

Here's an example:

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { View, Text, StyleSheet, TouchableHighlight } from 'react-native';

const MyButton = (props) => {
  const [isFocused, setIsFocused] = useState(false);

  const handleOnFocus = () => {
    setIsFocused(true);
  };

  const handleOnBlur = () => {
    setIsFocused(false);
  };

  return (
    <TouchableHighlight
      style={isFocused ? styles.focusedButton : styles.button}
      onPress={() => {props.addNumber(1)}}
      onFocus={handleOnFocus}
      onBlur={handleOnBlur}
      underlayColor="#DDDDDD"
    >
      <Text>1</Text>
    </TouchableHighlight>
  );
};

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  button: {
    backgroundColor: '#DDDDDD',
    padding: 10,
  },
  focusedButton: {
    backgroundColor: '#AAAAAA',
    padding: 10,
  },
});

export default MyButton;
```

In this example, when the button is focused, the `onFocus` event is triggered, which changes the state `isFocused` to `true`. This changes the style of the button to `styles.focusedButton`. When the button is blurred, the `onBlur` event is triggered, which changes the state `isFocused` to `false`, changing the style of the button back to `styles.button`.

Please note that this solution might not work on all platforms, as the `onFocus` and `onBlur` events are not officially supported by React Native.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

React Native's `Button` component is quite limited in terms of customization. It doesn't provide a way to handle focus events. However, you can use the `TouchableHighlight` or `TouchableOpacity` components to achieve this functionality.

Here's an example of how you can use `TouchableHighlight` to change the color of the button when it's focused:

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { TouchableHighlight, Text, View } from 'react-native';

const MyButton = (props) => {
  const [isFocused, setIsFocused] = useState(false);

  const handleFocus = () => {
    setIsFocused(true);
  };

  const handleBlur = () => {
    setIsFocused(false);
  };

  return (
    <TouchableHighlight
      underlayColor={isFocused ? 'blue' : 'red'}
      onFocus={handleFocus}
      onBlur={handleBlur}
      onPress={() => {props.addNumber(1)}}
      style={styles.button}
    >
      <Text>1</Text>
    </TouchableHighlight>
  );
};

export default MyButton;
```

In this example, we're using the `onFocus` and `onBlur` props to handle the focus events. When the button is focused, we change the `underlayColor` to blue, and when it's not focused, we change it back to red.

However, please note that `onFocus` and `onBlur` events are not supported in all versions of React Native. If you're targeting a platform that doesn't support these events, you might need to use a third-party library or a native module to handle the focus events.

Also, the `TouchableHighlight` component doesn't have a `disabled` prop. If you need to disable the button, you might need to handle this manually in your `onPress` handler.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

React Native's built-in `Button` component is somewhat limited in terms of customization. It doesn't provide a way to handle focus events for TV remote controls like the Amazon Fire Stick. However, you can achieve this functionality using a combination of `TouchableOpacity` and `useTVEventHandler` from `react-native`.

`useTVEventHandler` is a hook that allows you to handle TV-specific hardware events, such as up, down, left, right, and select. You can use this hook to track which button is currently focused.

Here's an example of how you might implement this:

```jsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { View, TouchableOpacity, Text, useTVEventHandler } from 'react-native';

const MyButton = (props) => {
  const [isFocused, setIsFocused] = useState(false);

  const tvEventHandler = useTVEventHandler((evt) => {
    if (evt.eventType === 'focus') {
      setIsFocused(true);
    } else if (evt.eventType === 'blur') {
      setIsFocused(false);
    }
  }, []);

  return (
    <TouchableOpacity
      style={isFocused ? styles.focusedButton : styles.button}
      onPress={() => props.addNumber(1)}
      onFocus={tvEventHandler}
      onBlur={tvEventHandler}
      disabled={props.loading}
    >
      <Text>1</Text>
    </TouchableOpacity>
  );
};

const styles = {
  button: {
    // your normal button styles
  },
  focusedButton: {
    // your focused button styles
  },
};

export default MyButton;
```

In this example, `MyButton` is a custom button component that uses the `useTVEventHandler` hook to handle focus and blur events. When the button is focused, it changes its style to `styles.focusedButton`, and when it loses focus, it changes back to `styles.button`.

Please note that this is a basic example and you might need to adjust it to fit your specific use case. For instance, if you have multiple buttons, you might need to track which button is currently focused in a parent component and pass the `isFocused` prop to each `MyButton` component.

--------
