
# Post \#64006345 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64006345/)

## React Testing Library: When to use userEvent.click and when to use fireEvent

**Vote**: 56 (116/702) **Views**: 49577 (164/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-113

Created at 2020-09-22 08:57:56

Tags: `javascript` `reactjs` `react-testing-library`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm presently learning React-Testing-Library.
I'd like to test mouse interaction with an element. Presently it's a bit unclear to me the difference between userEvent.click(element) and fireEvent.click(element). Are both recommended for use, and in the example below are they being correctly implemented?
```
const mockFunction = jest.fn(() => console.info('button clicked'));
const { getByTestId } = render(<MyAwesomeButton onClick={mockFunction} />);
const myAwesomeButton = getByTestId('my-awesome-button');

// Solution A
fireEvent(myAwesomeButton)
expect(mockFunction.toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);

// Solution B
userEvent.click(myAwesomeButton);
expect(mockFunction).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);
```

Thanks in advance for any clarity.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Both `fireEvent.click(element)` and `userEvent.click(element)` are methods to simulate user interactions in your tests, but they work in slightly different ways.

`fireEvent` is a lower-level API that directly triggers the specified event. It's part of the core `@testing-library/dom` package. It's a good choice when you need to fire events that don't necessarily mimic user interactions, like `load` or `scroll` events.

`userEvent` is a higher-level API that tries to simulate the actual events that would happen in the browser as the user interacts with it. For example, `userEvent.click(element)` first fires a `mousedown` event, then a `mouseup` event, and finally a `click` event, just like what happens when a real user clicks an element. It's part of the `@testing-library/user-event` package.

In most cases, `userEvent` is recommended because it provides a more realistic simulation of user interaction. However, there might be cases where `fireEvent` is more suitable, depending on what you need to test.

In your example, both methods are correctly implemented, but there's a small typo in the `fireEvent` example. It should be `fireEvent.click(myAwesomeButton)`, not `fireEvent(myAwesomeButton)`. Also, there's a missing closing parenthesis in the `expect` statement. Here's the corrected code:

```jsx
// Solution A
fireEvent.click(myAwesomeButton);
expect(mockFunction).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);

// Solution B
userEvent.click(myAwesomeButton);
expect(mockFunction).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);
```

Both of these will test that the `mockFunction` is called once when the button is clicked.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Both `fireEvent.click(element)` and `userEvent.click(element)` are used to simulate a click event on a DOM element. However, they do so in slightly different ways and are used in different contexts.

`fireEvent.click(element)` is a part of the `@testing-library/dom` package and it directly triggers the click event on the element. It's a low-level function that doesn't take into account the sequence of events that would happen in a real user interaction.

On the other hand, `userEvent.click(element)` is a part of the `@testing-library/user-event` package and it simulates a real user interaction. It triggers a sequence of events like `mouseDown`, `mouseUp`, `click`, etc., which would happen when a real user clicks on an element. It's a higher-level function and is recommended for most use cases because it more closely simulates user behavior.

In your example, both methods are correctly implemented, but `userEvent.click(element)` would be the recommended way to simulate a click event because it more closely matches what would happen in a real user interaction.

Here's the corrected version of your code:

```jsx
const mockFunction = jest.fn(() => console.info('button clicked'));
const { getByTestId } = render(<MyAwesomeButton onClick={mockFunction} />);
const myAwesomeButton = getByTestId('my-awesome-button');

// Solution A
fireEvent.click(myAwesomeButton); // You missed to call click method of fireEvent
expect(mockFunction).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1); // There was a typo in your code

// Solution B
userEvent.click(myAwesomeButton);
expect(mockFunction).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);
```

Remember to import `fireEvent` from `@testing-library/react` and `userEvent` from `@testing-library/user-event` at the top of your test file.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Both `fireEvent.click(element)` and `userEvent.click(element)` are used to simulate user interactions in your tests. However, they have some differences in how they simulate these interactions.

`fireEvent.click(element)` is a part of the `@testing-library/dom` package. It directly triggers the click event on the element. This is a lower-level method of simulating user interactions and doesn't take into account certain behaviors that real users would have. For example, it won't call the `mousedown`, `mouseup`, or `click` events in order.

On the other hand, `userEvent.click(element)` is a part of the `@testing-library/user-event` package. It provides a more realistic simulation of user interactions. When you call `userEvent.click(element)`, it will simulate the `mousedown`, `mouseup`, and `click` events in order, just like a real user would do. This makes it a better choice for most situations, as it provides a more accurate simulation of user behavior.

In your example, both methods are being used correctly. However, `userEvent.click(element)` would be the recommended method to use, as it provides a more realistic simulation of user interactions.

Here is the corrected code:

```jsx
const mockFunction = jest.fn(() => console.info('button clicked'));
const { getByTestId } = render(<MyAwesomeButton onClick={mockFunction} />);
const myAwesomeButton = getByTestId('my-awesome-button');

// Solution A
fireEvent.click(myAwesomeButton); // You missed to call click method in your example
expect(mockFunction).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1); // You missed closing parenthesis in your example

// Solution B
userEvent.click(myAwesomeButton);
expect(mockFunction).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);
```

Remember to install `@testing-library/user-event` if you haven't done so already, as it's not included in the core `@testing-library/react` package. You can install it with `npm install --save @testing-library/user-event`.

--------
