
# Post \#56134476 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56134476/)

## How to make select dropdown readonly or disabled conditionally in angular?

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 37561 (199/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-80

Created at 2019-05-14 16:02:42

Tags: `angular` `typescript` `angular7`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using Angular7 and I want to make select element readonly or disabled conditionnaly.



```
editable: boolean = true;
```


And the template:

```
<select  #listOfOptions="ngModel" [(ngModel)]="myList" [readonly]="!editable" class="form-control">
    </select>
```


This causes:

> Error: Template parse errors:
      Can't bind to 'readOnly' since it isn't a known property of 'select'.

There is an [issue](https://github.com/ng-select/ng-select/issues/786) about this, no solutions yet!



```
<select [attr.disabled]="!editable">
...
</select>
```


It is always disabled, no matter how I set the editable variable.

Thank you for help.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `disabled` attribute is a boolean attribute. When it is present, regardless of its actual value, the element is disabled. This means that setting `disabled="false"` will actually disable the element.

In Angular, you can conditionally add or remove the `disabled` attribute by binding it to a null value to remove it, or to an empty string to add it.

So, you can try this:

```html
<select [attr.disabled]="editable ? null : ''">
...
</select>
```

In this case, if `editable` is `true`, `null` will be returned and the `disabled` attribute will be removed. If `editable` is `false`, an empty string will be returned and the `disabled` attribute will be added, disabling the select element.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `disabled` attribute in HTML is a boolean attribute, meaning its presence alone, regardless of its actual value, implies `true`. So, when you use `[attr.disabled]="!editable"`, Angular will add the `disabled` attribute to the `select` element when `editable` is `false`, and remove the attribute when `editable` is `true`.

However, the problem is that Angular treats `null` or `undefined` as falsey values and will remove the attribute, but any other value, including `false`, is treated as truthy and will add the attribute. This is why your `select` is always disabled.

To fix this, you can use `null` to remove the `disabled` attribute:

```html
<select [attr.disabled]="editable ? null : ''">
...
</select>
```

In this case, when `editable` is `true`, Angular will remove the `disabled` attribute from the `select` element, and when `editable` is `false`, Angular will add the `disabled` attribute, making the `select` element disabled.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `disabled` attribute is a boolean attribute. When this attribute is present, no matter the value, the element is disabled. This is why your select is always disabled.

In Angular, you can conditionally add attributes by binding to `null`. If the expression you bind to `null` evaluates to `true`, the attribute will not be added. If the expression evaluates to `false`, the attribute will be added.

So, you should change your code to:

```html
<select [attr.disabled]="editable ? null : ''">
...
</select>
```

This way, when `editable` is `true`, `disabled` attribute will not be added and when `editable` is `false`, `disabled` attribute will be added.

--------
