
# Post \#56723678 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56723678/)

## Node --experimental-modules - Error: Cannot find module

**Vote**: 64 (104/702) **Views**: 63528 (135/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-79

Created at 2019-06-23 12:04:21

Tags: `javascript` `node.js` `ecmascript-6` `google-chrome-devtools`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am getting an error when trying to import a local file, though no problem when using npm packages.


# server.js



```
import express from 'express'
import next from 'next'

import apis from './src/server/api'
```



# api.js



```
export default {
  ello: 'bye',
  jamie: 'hey'
}
```



# Starting app



```
node --experimental-modules --inspect server.js
```



# Error



```
For help, see: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector
(node:20153) ExperimentalWarning: The ESM module loader is experimental.
internal/modules/esm/default_resolve.js:59
  let url = moduleWrapResolve(specifier, parentURL);
            ^

Error: Cannot find module '/var/www/goldendemon.hutber.com/src/server/api' imported from /var/www/goldendemon.hutber.com/server.js
    at Loader.resolve [as _resolve] (internal/modules/esm/default_resolve.js:59:13)
    at Loader.resolve (internal/modules/esm/loader.js:70:33)
    at Loader.getModuleJob (internal/modules/esm/loader.js:143:40)
    at ModuleWrap.<anonymous> (internal/modules/esm/module_job.js:43:40)
    at link (internal/modules/esm/module_job.js:42:36) {
  code: 'ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND'
}
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message `ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND` means that Node.js can't find the module you're trying to import. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The path to the module is incorrect.
2. The module doesn't exist.
3. The module is not correctly exported.

In your case, the problem seems to be with the path you're using to import the `api.js` file in your `server.js` file. 

You're currently using a relative path `./src/server/api` to import the `api.js` file. This path is relative to the current file, `server.js`. If the `server.js` file is not in the same directory as the `src` directory, this path won't work.

To fix this, you need to adjust the path to match the actual location of the `api.js` file. If `server.js` and `src` are in the same directory, the path should be `./src/server/api`. If `server.js` is inside a directory within the `src` directory, you might need to use `../src/server/api` or another appropriate path.

Here's how you can adjust the import statement:

```javascript
import apis from '../src/server/api'
```

Or, if `server.js` and `src` are in the same directory:

```javascript
import apis from './src/server/api'
```

Please adjust the path according to your project's directory structure. If the problem persists, make sure that the `api.js` file exists in the specified location and is correctly exporting the `apis` object.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message `ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND` indicates that Node.js is unable to locate the module you're trying to import. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The path to the file is incorrect.
2. The file does not exist.
3. The file is not in the correct format to be recognized as a module.

Here are a few things you can try to fix the issue:

1. **Check the file path**: Make sure that the path to the file is correct. In your case, you're trying to import the `api.js` file from `./src/server/api`. This means that the `api.js` file should be in the `src/server/` directory relative to the `server.js` file. If the `api.js` file is not in this location, you'll need to update the import statement with the correct path.

2. **Check the file existence**: Make sure that the `api.js` file actually exists. You can do this by navigating to the `src/server/` directory and checking if the `api.js` file is there.

3. **Check the file format**: Make sure that the `api.js` file is in the correct format to be recognized as a module. In your case, the `api.js` file should be an ES module, which means it should have `export` statements. If the `api.js` file does not have `export` statements, you'll need to add them.

4. **Use the .js extension in your import**: Node.js is very particular about file extensions. Try changing your import statement to `import apis from './src/server/api.js'`.

5. **Check your Node.js version**: The `--experimental-modules` flag is only necessary if you're using a version of Node.js that does not fully support ES modules. If you're using Node.js version 14 or later, you should be able to use ES modules without the `--experimental-modules` flag. If you're using an older version of Node.js, you might consider updating to a newer version.

6. **Use require instead of import**: If none of the above solutions work, you can try using `require` instead of `import`. This would look like `const apis = require('./src/server/api')`. However, this is not recommended as it is not the ES6 way of importing modules.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message `ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND` indicates that Node.js cannot find the module you're trying to import. This could be due to several reasons:

1. The file path is incorrect.
2. The file does not exist.
3. The file is in a directory that Node.js is not looking in.

In your case, it seems like the file path you're using to import the `api.js` file in `server.js` might be incorrect. 

You're currently using a relative file path to import `api.js`:

```javascript
import apis from './src/server/api'
```

This tells Node.js to look for `api.js` in a directory called `src/server/` that's located in the same directory as `server.js`.

If your `server.js` and `api.js` files are located in the same directory, you should change the import statement in `server.js` to:

```javascript
import apis from './api'
```

If they're not in the same directory, you'll need to adjust the file path accordingly. 

Also, make sure that the `api.js` file is actually named `api.js` and not `api.js.js` or `api`, as this could also cause the error you're seeing. 

If you're still having trouble, you might want to print out the current directory in your `server.js` file to make sure you're in the correct directory:

```javascript
console.log(__dirname);
```

This will print out the directory that `server.js` is running in, which can help you figure out the correct file path to `api.js`.

--------
