
# Post \#64117723 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64117723/)

## Puppeteer: Failed to launch the browser process! spawn

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 26687 (249/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-112

Created at 2020-09-29 10:27:08

Tags: `node.js` `express` `web-scraping` `puppeteer`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When I try to run `node app.js`, I get error:
> the message is Failed to launch the browser process! spawn
/Users/iliebogdanbarbulescu/Downloads/firstProject/node_modules/chromium/lib/chromium/chrome-mac/Chromium.app
> EACCES

I checked  the folder at `/Users/iliebogdanbarbulescu/Downloads/firstProject/node_modules/chromium/lib/chromium/chrome-mac/Chromium.app` and the file is not zipped. It can be run.

If I try to execute without the path,  it works, but
I would like to use either Chrome or Chromium to open a new page.
`const browser = await puppeteer.launch({headless:false'});`
```
const express = require('express');
const puppeteer = require('puppeteer');
const app = express();

(async () => {
  const browser = await puppeteer.launch({headless:false, executablePath:'/Users/iliebogdanbarbulescu/Downloads/firstProject/node_modules/chromium/lib/chromium/chrome-mac/Chromium.app'});
 const page = await browser.newPage();
 await page.goto('https://google.com', {waitUntil: 'networkidle2'});

})().catch((error) =>{
  console.error("the message is " + error.message);
});

app.listen(3000, function (){
    console.log('server started');
})
```

[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/0Sef5.jpg)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that the browser process failed to launch because of a permission issue. You can try running the command with elevated privileges using `sudo`:

```
sudo node app.js
```

If that doesn't work, you can try changing the permissions of the Chromium executable file:

```
chmod +x /Users/iliebogdanbarbulescu/Downloads/firstProject/node_modules/chromium/lib/chromium/chrome-mac/Chromium.app/Contents/MacOS/Chromium
```

This should give the executable file the necessary permissions to run. 

Alternatively, you can try using the default executable path for Chromium:

```
const browser = await puppeteer.launch({headless:false, executablePath: 'chromium-browser'});
```

This should work if Chromium is installed on your system and added to the PATH environment variable.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the browser process failed to launch because of a permission issue. This could be due to the fact that the user running the command does not have the necessary permissions to execute the file.

To fix this issue, you can try changing the permissions of the file using the following command:

```
chmod +x /Users/iliebogdanbarbulescu/Downloads/firstProject/node_modules/chromium/lib/chromium/chrome-mac/Chromium.app/Contents/MacOS/Chromium
```

This will give the executable file the necessary permissions to be executed.

Alternatively, you can try using the default executable path for Chrome or Chromium by removing the `executablePath` option from the `puppeteer.launch()` method. This should work as long as Chrome or Chromium is installed on your system and in the default location.

```
const browser = await puppeteer.launch({headless:false});
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the browser process failed to launch because of a permission issue. It's possible that the executable file doesn't have the necessary permissions to run on your system.

You can try running the command `chmod +x /Users/iliebogdanbarbulescu/Downloads/firstProject/node_modules/chromium/lib/chromium/chrome-mac/Chromium.app` to give the file executable permissions.

Alternatively, you can try using the `executablePath` option without specifying the full path to the executable file. For example, you can try `executablePath: 'chromium'` or `executablePath: 'google-chrome'` depending on which browser you want to use.

If neither of these solutions work, you can try reinstalling the browser or using a different browser altogether.

--------
