
# Post \#43309712 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43309712/)

## How to check if a value is not null and not empty string in JS

**Vote**: 118 (43/702) **Views**: 492343 (7/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-131

Created at 2017-04-09 17:26:24

Tags: `javascript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there any check if a value is not null and not empty string in Javascript? I'm using the following one:

```
var data; //get its value from db 
if(data != null && data != '') {
   // do something
}
```


But I'm wondering if there is another better solution. Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, there is a better solution in JavaScript to check if a value is not null and not an empty string. You can use the following code:

```
var data; //get its value from db 
if(data && data.trim()) {
   // do something
}
```

This code checks if the `data` variable is truthy (not null, undefined, 0, false, or an empty string) and also checks if the trimmed value of `data` is not an empty string. The `trim()` method removes whitespace from both ends of a string. This solution is more concise and efficient than the one you provided.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, there is a better solution in JavaScript to check if a value is not null and not an empty string. You can use the following code:

```
var data; //get its value from db 
if(data && data.trim()) {
   // do something
}
```

Here, the `trim()` method removes any whitespace from the beginning and end of the string. If the resulting string is not empty, the condition is true. This approach is more concise and easier to read.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, there is a better solution in JavaScript to check if a value is not null and not an empty string. You can use the following code:

```
var data; //get its value from db 
if(data && data.trim()) {
   // do something
}
```

This code checks if the `data` variable is truthy (not null, undefined, false, 0, or an empty string) and also checks if the trimmed value of `data` (removing any whitespace from the beginning and end of the string) is not an empty string. This is a more concise and efficient way to check for non-null and non-empty string values.

--------
