
# Post \#57459917 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57459917/)

## How to fix this error : " Module not found :can't resolve popper.js "

**Vote**: 81 (77/702) **Views**: 124983 (70/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-60

Created at 2019-08-12 10:58:09

Tags: `jquery` `reactjs` `react-bootstrap` `react-popper`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After import the Bootstrap and Jquery this error is showning when compiling.

```
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
import './index.css';

global.jQuery = require('jquery');
require('bootstrap');
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message would be helpful to diagnose the issue, but based on the code snippet you provided, it looks like you might be missing the `jquery` package as a dependency in your project. 

You can try running `npm install jquery` in your project directory to install it and then try running your code again. 

If that doesn't work, please provide the error message so we can better assist you.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message would be helpful to identify the exact issue, but based on the code snippet provided, it looks like you are trying to import Bootstrap and jQuery into your React application. 

One possible issue could be that you are missing the jQuery library. Make sure you have installed it using npm or yarn. 

Another possible issue could be that you are importing the jQuery library incorrectly. Try changing `global.jQuery` to `window.jQuery` and see if that resolves the issue. 

If neither of these solutions work, please provide the error message so we can better assist you.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message would be helpful to diagnose the issue. However, based on the code snippet provided, it seems that you are trying to import jQuery as a global variable, which is not recommended. Instead, you can import it as a module and use it in your code like this:

```
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
import './index.css';
import $ from 'jquery';
import 'bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap';

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

Make sure that you have installed both jQuery and Bootstrap using npm or yarn before importing them in your code.

--------
