
# Post \#62810567 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62810567/)

## Difference between Pressable and TouchableOpacity

**Vote**: 41 (153/702) **Views**: 24532 (266/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-4

Created at 2020-07-09 08:27:08

Tags: `javascript` `reactjs` `react-native`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

With the update `react native` to version `0.63`, new components have appeared. Can someone more experienced explain how the `Pressable` differs from the `TouchableOpacity` and when it is better to use them.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Certainly! Both `Pressable` and `TouchableOpacity` are components in React Native that allow you to create touchable elements in your app. However, there are some differences between the two.

`TouchableOpacity` is a component that provides a visual feedback when the user touches it. When the user presses the `TouchableOpacity`, the opacity of the button is reduced, giving the user a visual indication that the button has been pressed. This component is useful when you want to create a button or touchable element that provides visual feedback to the user.

`Pressable`, on the other hand, is a more versatile component that allows you to create touchable elements with custom feedback. With `Pressable`, you can define your own feedback when the user touches the element. For example, you can change the background color of the element, change the opacity, or even animate the element. `Pressable` is useful when you want to create touchable elements that have custom feedback that is not provided by `TouchableOpacity`.

In general, if you just need a simple touchable element with visual feedback, `TouchableOpacity` is a good choice. If you need more control over the feedback that is provided when the user touches the element, `Pressable` is a better choice.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Certainly! 

`Pressable` and `TouchableOpacity` are both components in React Native that allow you to create touchable elements in your app. However, there are some differences between the two.

`TouchableOpacity` is a component that provides a visual feedback when a user touches it. When the user presses the `TouchableOpacity`, the opacity of the button is reduced, giving the user the impression that the button has been pressed. This is a common pattern in mobile app design.

`Pressable`, on the other hand, is a more flexible component that allows you to define your own feedback when a user touches it. You can define different types of feedback, such as changing the background color or adding an animation. `Pressable` also allows you to define different types of touch events, such as `onPress`, `onLongPress`, and `onPressIn`.

So, when should you use `Pressable` over `TouchableOpacity`? If you need more control over the feedback that is provided when a user touches a button, or if you need to define different types of touch events, then `Pressable` is the better choice. However, if you just need a simple button with a visual feedback, then `TouchableOpacity` is a good choice.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Sure, I'd be happy to help!

`Pressable` and `TouchableOpacity` are both components in React Native that allow you to create touchable elements in your app. However, there are some differences between the two that may make one more suitable for your needs than the other.

`TouchableOpacity` is a component that provides a visual feedback when a user touches it. When the user presses down on the `TouchableOpacity`, the opacity of the button is reduced, giving the user the impression that the button is being pressed. This is a common pattern in mobile apps and is used to provide feedback to the user that their touch has been registered.

`Pressable`, on the other hand, is a more flexible component that allows you to define your own feedback when the user touches it. You can use `Pressable` to create buttons that change color, size, or shape when they are pressed. You can also use `Pressable` to create touchable elements that respond to different types of touch events, such as long presses or multiple taps.

So, when should you use `TouchableOpacity` versus `Pressable`? If you just need a simple touchable element that provides visual feedback, `TouchableOpacity` is probably the way to go. However, if you need more control over the feedback that is provided to the user, or if you need to respond to different types of touch events, `Pressable` may be a better choice.

I hope that helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------
