
# Post \#57088357 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57088357/)

## AWS Lambda - Runtime.ImportModuleError: Error: Cannot find module 'jmespath'

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 24169 (269/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-72

Created at 2019-07-18 06:33:54

Tags: `node.js` `amazon-web-services` `aws-lambda` `serverless-framework`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am working with aws lambda using serverless framework, I changed the runtime from `nodejs8.10` to `nodejs10.x`, then I got an errortrace, 

```
{"errorType":"Runtime.ImportModuleError","errorMessage":"Error: Cannot find module 'jmespath'","stack":["Runtime.ImportModuleError: Error: Cannot find module 'jmespath'","    at _loadUserApp (/var/runtime/UserFunction.js:100:13)","    at Object.module.exports.load (/var/runtime/UserFunction.js:140:17)","    at Object.<anonymous> (/var/runtime/index.js:36:30)","    at Module._compile (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:701:30)","    at Object.Module._extensions..js (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:712:10)","    at Module.load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:600:32)","    at tryModuleLoad (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:539:12)","    at Function.Module._load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:531:3)","    at Function.Module.runMain (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:754:12)","    at startup (internal/bootstrap/node.js:283:19)"]}
```


What is the cause of this issue and how can get it fixed?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that the module 'jmespath' is not found. This could be due to a couple of reasons:

1. The 'jmespath' module is not installed. You can install it using npm by running `npm install jmespath`.

2. The 'jmespath' module is not properly referenced in your code. Make sure that you have required it correctly in your code. For example, you should have something like `var jmespath = require('jmespath');` at the top of your file.

3. The 'jmespath' module is not included in the deployment package. When using AWS Lambda, you need to include all your dependencies in the deployment package. If you're using the Serverless framework, it should automatically include all the dependencies listed in your `package.json` file. Make sure 'jmespath' is listed there.

4. There might be a compatibility issue with the Node.js version. 'jmespath' might not be compatible with the Node.js version you're using. You can check the compatibility on the npm page of 'jmespath'.

To fix the issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Install 'jmespath' by running `npm install jmespath`.

2. Make sure 'jmespath' is properly required in your code.

3. Check your `package.json` file and make sure 'jmespath' is listed in the dependencies.

4. Re-deploy your Lambda function. If you're using the Serverless framework, you can do this by running `sls deploy`.

5. If the issue persists, you might need to downgrade or upgrade your Node.js version to a version that is compatible with 'jmespath'.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message "Cannot find module 'jmespath'" indicates that the 'jmespath' module is not found in your project dependencies. This module is a dependency of the AWS SDK, which is used by AWS Lambda.

Here are some steps to resolve this issue:

1. **Install the missing module**: Run `npm install jmespath --save` in your project root directory. This will install the 'jmespath' module and add it to your project dependencies in the package.json file.

2. **Check your package.json file**: Ensure that 'jmespath' is listed in the dependencies section of your package.json file. If it's not, add it manually and run `npm install` again.

3. **Check your node_modules folder**: Ensure that the 'jmespath' folder is present in your node_modules folder. If it's not, it means the module has not been installed correctly.

4. **Re-deploy your AWS Lambda function**: After ensuring that 'jmespath' is installed correctly, re-deploy your AWS Lambda function using the Serverless Framework. The command to do this is `sls deploy`.

5. **Use AWS SDK**: If you are using AWS SDK in your lambda function, AWS provides a version of the SDK for JavaScript in Node.js that is compatible with AWS Lambda. You don't need to include it in your deployment package. AWS Lambda includes the AWS SDK for JavaScript in Node.js in the execution environment.

If you still face the issue, try deleting the node_modules folder and package-lock.json file, then run `npm install` again. This will re-install all your dependencies.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the module 'jmespath' is not found. This could be due to a few reasons:

1. The 'jmespath' module is not installed. You can install it using npm by running `npm install jmespath`.

2. The 'jmespath' module is not included in the deployment package. When using AWS Lambda, you need to include all your dependencies in the deployment package. If you're using the Serverless Framework, it should automatically include all dependencies listed in your `package.json` file. If 'jmespath' is not listed there, you need to add it.

3. There might be a compatibility issue with the new Node.js runtime. If the module is installed and included in the deployment package, but the error still occurs, it might be that the 'jmespath' module is not compatible with Node.js 10.x. In this case, you could try to update the 'jmespath' module to a newer version that supports Node.js 10.x.

To fix the issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Install the 'jmespath' module by running `npm install jmespath`.

2. Add 'jmespath' to your `package.json` file.

3. Redeploy your Lambda function.

If the error still occurs, try to update the 'jmespath' module to a newer version that supports Node.js 10.x. You can do this by running `npm update jmespath`. After updating, redeploy your Lambda function.

--------
