
# Post \#43002444 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43002444/)

## Make Axios send cookies in its requests automatically

**Vote**: 280 (6/702) **Views**: 524329 (5/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-77

Created at 2017-03-24 14:44:09

Tags: `javascript` `node.js` `express` `cookies` `axios`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am sending requests from the client to my Express.js server using Axios. 

I set a cookie on the client and I want to read that cookie from all Axios requests without adding them manually to request by hand. 

This is my clientside request example:

```
axios.get(`some api url`).then(response => ...
```


I tried to access headers or cookies by using these properties in my Express.js server:

```
req.headers
req.cookies
```


Neither of them contained any cookies. I am using cookie parser middleware:

```
app.use(cookieParser())
```


How do I make Axios send cookies in requests automatically? 

Edit:

I set cookie on the client like this:

```
import cookieClient from 'react-cookie'

...
let cookie = cookieClient.load('cookie-name')
if(cookie === undefined){
      axios.get('path/to/my/cookie/api').then(response => {
        if(response.status == 200){
          cookieClient.save('cookie-name', response.data, {path:'/'})
        }
      })
    }
...
```


While it's also using Axios, it is not relevant to the question. I simply want to embed cookies into all my requests once a cookie is set. 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To automatically send cookies in all Axios requests, you can use Axios interceptors. 

Here's an example:

```
import axios from 'axios';

axios.interceptors.request.use(
  config => {
    const cookie = document.cookie;
    if (cookie) {
      config.headers.Cookie = cookie;
    }
    return config;
  },
  error => Promise.reject(error)
);
```

This code intercepts all Axios requests and adds the `Cookie` header to the request if there is a cookie set in the browser. 

Note that this code assumes that the cookie is set on the domain where the Axios requests are being made. If the cookie is set on a different domain, you may need to configure CORS on your server to allow the cookie to be sent with the request.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To make Axios send cookies in requests automatically, you need to set the `withCredentials` option to `true` in your Axios request configuration. This will ensure that cookies are sent along with the request.

Here's an example:

```
axios.get(`some api url`, { withCredentials: true }).then(response => ...
```

Also, make sure that your server is configured to allow credentials by setting the `credentials` option to `true` in your CORS configuration. This will allow the server to receive cookies from the client.

Here's an example:

```
app.use(cors({
  origin: 'http://example.com',
  credentials: true
}));
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To make Axios send cookies automatically with each request, you need to set the `withCredentials` option to `true` when making the request. This will ensure that the cookies are sent along with the request.

Here's an example:

```
axios.get(`some api url`, { withCredentials: true }).then(response => ...
```

You can also set this option globally for all Axios requests by using the `axios.defaults.withCredentials` property:

```
axios.defaults.withCredentials = true;
```

Make sure that your server is also configured to allow credentials by setting the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` header to `true`. Here's an example:

```
app.use(function(req, res, next) {
  res.header("Access-Control-Allow-Origin", "http://localhost:3000");
  res.header("Access-Control-Allow-Headers", "Origin, X-Requested-With, Content-Type, Accept");
  res.header("Access-Control-Allow-Credentials", true);
  next();
});
```

With these changes, your Axios requests should automatically include the cookies set on the client side.

--------
