
# Post \#61228114 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61228114/)

## Absolute Imports: React and Typescript

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 16085 (341/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-24

Created at 2020-04-15 11:57:00

Tags: `reactjs` `typescript` `webpack` `babeljs`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


## Background



I have a React app bootstrapped using `create-react-app` and typescript. As the application has grown, () I would like to implement absolute imports. I am using VS Code (Visual Studio Code) and with very little configuration, I got TS and VS Code to recognize my absolute imports.

For TS, I took the following steps in my `tsconfig.json`:

- `"baseUrl": "client"`- `include``"include": ["./**/*.ts", "./**/*.tsx", "client"]`

For VS Code, I changed my User Settings: Typescript -> Preferences: Import Module Specifier -> non-relative

That worked great. All of my imports were using absolute imports, no errors. But, when I ran the app, I got an error: `Error: Cannot find module "component"` I expected to see my app like I did before the absolute imports. 


## What I Tried



Figured, the error was a webpack or babel issue. 


1. Created env File Added the following to an env file in the root of the app (same location as my package.json)



```
NODE_PATH=client/
```


That did not work. Same error: `Error: Cannot find module "components"`. Also tried changing NODE_PATH to REACT_APP_NODE_PATH that did not work either.


1. Modify Babel Config Added babel plugin module resolver with yarn add -D babel-plugin-module-resolver. Then modified my babel.config.js to:



```
module.exports = { 
  env {...}, 
  plugins: [
    [
      'module-resolver',
      {
        cwd: 'babelrc',
        extensions: ['.ts', '.tsx', '.js'],
        alias: {
          client: './client',
        },
      },
    ],
  ]
}
```


That returns the same error. (I am restarting the server after every change to my config files)


I used a lot of different articles to try to find clarity. Here are some:

- [here](https://medium.com/@ktruong008/absolute-imports-with-create-react-app-4338fbca7e3d)- [here](https://dev.to/mr_frontend/absolute-imports-in-create-react-app-3ge8)- [here](https://justinnoel.dev/2019/06/18/configuring-react-absolute-imports-for-typescript/)- [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56908357/use-absolute-path-in-react-components)- 

And many others. None of that worked. 


## Project Structure



My project structure is a little "unconventional" or not my typical pattern which could be causing an issue.

```
└── root dir
    ├── assets
    │   └── client
    │       ├── assets
    │       ├── components
    │       ├── hooks
    │       └── ...
    │   └── babel.config.js
    │   └── .babelrc
    │   └── webpack.config.js
    │   └── package.json
    └── server files (no server dir)
```


So `client` is like my `src` in a typical react app. `assets` is the "entry dir" for my server which is in the `root dir`.

Any help would be appreciated.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're facing is likely due to the fact that Create React App (CRA) doesn't support customizing the webpack configuration out of the box, unless you eject or use a tool like `react-app-rewired` or `customize-cra`.

However, CRA does support absolute imports. You can set up a `jsconfig.json` or `tsconfig.json` in your project root to specify the `baseUrl`. Here's how you can do it:

1. Create a `jsconfig.json` or `tsconfig.json` file in your project root if it doesn't exist already.

2. Add the following configuration:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": "src"
  },
  "include": ["src"]
}
```

3. Now you can import files from the `src` directory like this:

```jsx
import MyComponent from 'components/MyComponent';
```

Instead of:

```jsx
import MyComponent from '../../../components/MyComponent';
```

In your case, since you're using TypeScript and your source files are in the `client` directory, your `tsconfig.json` should look like this:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": "client"
  },
  "include": ["client"]
}
```

This should work without any additional configuration or plugins. If you're still having issues, make sure your paths are correct and that you're importing from the correct directory.

Also, note that the `NODE_PATH` environment variable is deprecated in Create React App and should not be used.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue seems to be with the way you have set up your project structure and the paths you are using in your configuration files. 

Here's a step-by-step guide on how to set up absolute imports in your project:

1. **Set up `tsconfig.json`**

   In your `tsconfig.json` file, set the `baseUrl` and `paths` options like this:

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {
       "baseUrl": "src",
       "paths": {
         "*": ["src/*"]
       }
       // other options...
     },
     "include": ["src"]
   }
   ```

   This tells TypeScript to use the `src` directory as the base for module resolution.

2. **Set up `.env` file**

   In your `.env` file, set the `NODE_PATH` environment variable like this:

   ```
   NODE_PATH=src/
   ```

   This tells Node.js to use the `src` directory as the base for module resolution.

3. **Set up Babel**

   Install the `babel-plugin-module-resolver` package:

   ```
   yarn add -D babel-plugin-module-resolver
   ```

   Then, in your `babel.config.js` file, set up the plugin like this:

   ```javascript
   module.exports = {
     // other options...
     plugins: [
       [
         'module-resolver',
         {
           root: ['./src'],
           extensions: ['.js', '.jsx', '.ts', '.tsx'],
         },
       ],
     ],
   };
   ```

   This tells Babel to use the `src` directory as the base for module resolution.

4. **Restart your development server**

   After making these changes, you need to restart your development server for the changes to take effect.

   ```
   yarn start
   ```

Please note that you need to replace `src` with `client` in the above steps if you want to use the `client` directory as the base for module resolution. Also, make sure that your `client` directory is at the root of your project, not inside the `assets` directory.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue seems to be with the way you've set up your project structure and the way you're trying to resolve the paths. 

Here's a step-by-step guide on how you can set up absolute imports in your project:

1. **Update `tsconfig.json`**

In your `tsconfig.json`, you need to specify the `baseUrl` and `paths`:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": "src",
    "paths": {
      "*": ["src/*"]
    }
    // other options...
  },
  "include": ["src"]
}
```

This tells TypeScript to use `src` as the base directory for resolving modules.

2. **Update webpack configuration**

You also need to update your webpack configuration to resolve modules from the `src` directory:

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  // other options...
  resolve: {
    modules: [path.resolve(__dirname, 'src'), 'node_modules'],
    extensions: ['.js', '.jsx', '.ts', '.tsx'],
  },
};
```

This tells webpack to look into `src` and `node_modules` when resolving modules.

3. **Update `.env` file**

In your `.env` file, you need to specify `NODE_PATH`:

```
NODE_PATH=src/
```

This tells Node.js to include `src` in the module resolution paths.

4. **Restart your development server**

After making these changes, you need to restart your development server for the changes to take effect.

With these changes, you should be able to use absolute imports in your project. For example, if you have a component at `src/components/MyComponent.tsx`, you can import it like this:

```js
import MyComponent from 'components/MyComponent';
```

If you're still having issues, it could be due to the unconventional project structure. You might want to consider restructuring your project to follow the typical structure for a React app, where the `src` directory is at the root of the project.

--------
