
# Post \#66052793 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66052793/)

## Angular typescript convert string to number

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 12950 (384/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-7

Created at 2021-02-04 19:47:05

Tags: `angular` `typescript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to convert a `string number` (an integer represented as a string. ex "12" ) to a `number`

```
export class Person{
  FirstName :  string | undefined ;
  Telephone:  number | undefined ;

}
```


```
console.log("Person" + JSON.stringify(this.person));
```

The JSON appears as
```
{
    "FirstName ": "hhhhh",
    "Telephone": "1478525",
}
```

The Telephone property is a number and I want it to appear as follows (without the ""_ :
```
{
    "FirstName ": "hhhhh",
    "Telephone": 1478525,
}
```

Approaches I took.
```
this.person.Telephone = parseInt(telephone);
```

Above didn't work, it shows the same number enclosed as a `string`. I also tried the following:
```
this.person.Telephone as number
```

both approaches didn't work. Can someone help me solve this ?
Error I get if I don't convert to a number:
> "The JSON value could not be converted to System.Int32. Path:
$.Telephone | LineNumber: 2 | BytePositionInLine: 18."


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're getting suggests that the JSON value for `Telephone` is not being converted to a number before it's assigned to `person.Telephone`.

The `parseInt()` function should work as expected. However, it's possible that the `telephone` value you're passing to `parseInt()` is not a string representation of a number. 

Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
this.person.Telephone = Number(telephone);
```

or 

```javascript
this.person.Telephone = +telephone;
```

Both of these will convert the string to a number.

If you're still having trouble, you might want to check the value of `telephone` before you try to convert it. You can do this with a `console.log()` statement:

```javascript
console.log(telephone);
this.person.Telephone = Number(telephone);
```

This will print the value of `telephone` to the console, which might help you figure out why it's not being converted to a number.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're facing might be due to the fact that the `Telephone` property is being set as a string somewhere in your code before you log it. The `parseInt` method should work correctly if used properly.

Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
if (this.person.Telephone) {
    this.person.Telephone = parseInt(this.person.Telephone);
}
```

This will convert the `Telephone` property to a number if it's not undefined. 

If you're still facing the issue, then you might want to check other parts of your code to see if the `Telephone` property is being set as a string after you've converted it to a number. 

Also, ensure that the `Telephone` property is not being set as a string in the constructor of the `Person` class or anywhere else in your code.

If the `Telephone` property is being set as a string in the constructor, you can convert it to a number like this:

```javascript
export class Person {
    FirstName : string | undefined;
    Telephone: number | undefined;

    constructor(FirstName: string, Telephone: string) {
        this.FirstName = FirstName;
        this.Telephone = parseInt(Telephone);
    }
}
```

This will ensure that the `Telephone` property is always a number when a `Person` object is created.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're getting suggests that the JSON value you're trying to parse into an integer is not a valid integer. 

The `parseInt` function you're using should work correctly if the string you're trying to parse is a valid integer. 

Here's an example of how you can use `parseInt`:

```javascript
let str = "1478525";
let num = parseInt(str);
console.log(num); // 1478525
```

In your case, you should make sure that the `telephone` variable you're trying to parse is a string that represents a valid integer. 

If `telephone` is a property of `this.person` and it's a string, you should be able to parse it like this:

```javascript
this.person.Telephone = parseInt(this.person.Telephone);
```

If `parseInt` still doesn't work, you could try using the `Number` function instead:

```javascript
this.person.Telephone = Number(this.person.Telephone);
```

This will convert the string to a number if it's a valid number. 

If none of these solutions work, you might want to check the value of `this.person.Telephone` before you try to parse it. It's possible that it's not a string, or not a string that represents a valid integer.

--------
