
# Post \#71450038 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71450038/)

## How to patch the value of multiselect dropdown (primeng component) in a reactive form?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 1414 (629/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-93

Created at 2022-03-12 13:19:16

Tags: `javascript` `angular` `angular-reactive-forms` `primeng` `primeng-dropdowns`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using primeng components in the template.
I have the option to edit the form, which displays the existing field values. I am not able to patch the value of multiselect dropdown.
```
excludeDays = [      
    {label: 'Mon', value: 1},
    {label: 'Tue', value: 2},
    {label: 'Wed', value: 3},
    {label: 'Thu', value: 4},
    {label: 'Fri', value: 5},
    {label: 'Sat', value: 6},
    {label: 'Sun', value: 7},
  ]
```

I have my backend data coming in as a string and then I am converting it into array of number like
```
[1,2] or[2,3,4]
```

Now after I press the edit button I want the values of the dropdown to be selected as above excludeDays values are there.
```
<div class="col-12" style="width: auto;" >
      <p-multiSelect [options]="excludeDays" optionLabel="label" defaultLabel="Select day" formControlName="excludeDays"></p-multiSelect> 
</div>
```

I am using
```
this.form.patchValue({
... : ....
excludeDays: converted array of (excludeDays) to number array
})
```

This is the console output of the excludeDays array after converting it into number array
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/HKdjr.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're facing is likely due to the fact that you're trying to patch the form with the values (numbers) directly, while the p-multiSelect component is expecting objects in the format `{label: '...', value: ...}`.

You need to convert your number array back to the object format that the p-multiSelect component expects. Here's how you can do it:

```typescript
let excludeDaysNumbers = [1, 2]; // This should be your converted array
let excludeDaysObjects = this.excludeDays.filter(day => excludeDaysNumbers.includes(day.value));

this.form.patchValue({
  ... : ....
  excludeDays: excludeDaysObjects
});
```

In this code, `excludeDaysObjects` will be an array of objects from `this.excludeDays` where the `value` is included in `excludeDaysNumbers`. This array can then be used to patch the form.

This way, the p-multiSelect component will correctly display the selected days.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The problem you're facing is likely due to the fact that you're trying to patch the form with an array of numbers, while your `p-multiSelect` component is expecting an array of objects (each with a `label` and `value` property).

You need to convert your array of numbers back into the appropriate object format before patching the form. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
let excludeDaysNumbers = [1, 2]; // This should be your converted array of numbers

let excludeDaysObjects = this.excludeDays.filter(day => excludeDaysNumbers.includes(day.value));

this.form.patchValue({
  ... : ....
  excludeDays: excludeDaysObjects
});
```

In this code, `excludeDaysObjects` will be an array of objects from `this.excludeDays` where the `value` property is included in your `excludeDaysNumbers` array. This array can then be used to patch your form.

Remember, `p-multiSelect` component expects an array of objects (with `label` and `value` properties) to pre-select options, not just an array of numbers.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue you're facing is likely due to the mismatch between the structure of the data you're trying to patch and the structure of the data that the `p-multiSelect` component expects.

The `p-multiSelect` component expects an array of objects, where each object has a `label` and a `value` property. However, you're trying to patch an array of numbers.

To solve this issue, you need to convert your array of numbers back to the original structure, i.e., an array of objects. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
let excludeDaysNumbers = [1, 2]; // This should be your converted array of numbers
let patchedExcludeDays = this.excludeDays.filter(day => excludeDaysNumbers.includes(day.value));

this.form.patchValue({
  ... : ....
  excludeDays: patchedExcludeDays
});
```

In this code, `filter` is used to create a new array with all elements that pass the test implemented by the provided function. The `includes` method is used to determine whether an array includes a certain value among its entries.

--------
