
# Post \#59021924 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59021924/)

## Error: Failed to load parser 'babel-eslint' declared in '.eslintrc': Cannot find module 'babel-eslint' in create-react-app

**Vote**: 20 (261/702) **Views**: 33622 (213/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-100

Created at 2019-11-24 20:14:02

Tags: `reactjs` `create-react-app` `eslint` `babel-eslint`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Trying to install [eslint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint) into [create-react-app](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-react-app), but get next error when running linter:

![enter image description here]](https://i.stack.imgur.com/YhtHl.png)

Here is my `.eslintrc` config file:

```
{
  "extends": ["airbnb", "prettier", "prettier/react"],
  "plugins": ["prettier"],
  "parser": "babel-eslint"
}
```


If install `babel-eslint` manually it'll potentially produce another error based on package conflict between  project and `react-scripts` dependencies:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/shgSj.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're facing is due to the fact that Create React App has its own ESLint configuration and it doesn't allow custom ESLint configuration out of the box. 

However, you can still use your own ESLint configuration by "ejecting" the Create React App configuration. Please note that this is a one-way operation. Once you eject, you can’t go back! If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can eject at any time.

To eject, you can use the following command:

```bash
npm run eject
```

After ejecting, you can install ESLint and other dependencies and configure them as per your requirements.

However, if you don't want to eject, you can use packages like `react-app-rewired` and `customize-cra` to override Create React App configuration without ejecting.

Here is how you can do it:

1. Install `react-app-rewired` and `customize-cra`:

```bash
npm install react-app-rewired customize-cra --save-dev
```

2. Create a `config-overrides.js` file in the root directory:

```javascript
/* config-overrides.js */

const { useEslintRc } = require('customize-cra');

module.exports = function override(config, env) {
  // use .eslintrc
  config = useEslintRc()(config);

  return config;
};
```

3. Replace `react-scripts` with `react-app-rewired` in `package.json`:

```json
/* package.json */

"scripts": {
  "start": "react-app-rewired start",
  "build": "react-app-rewired build",
  "test": "react-app-rewired test",
  "eject": "react-scripts eject"
}
```

4. Now, you can use your own `.eslintrc` file with Create React App.

Please note that `react-app-rewired` and `customize-cra` are not officially supported by Create React App, so use them at your own risk.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're seeing is because `create-react-app` comes with its own ESLint configuration and it doesn't allow overriding the parser. 

You can't use `babel-eslint` as the parser in a `create-react-app` project without ejecting or using a workaround like `react-app-rewired` to override the configuration.

Here are a few options to solve this issue:

1. **Ejecting the configuration**: You can run `npm run eject` to expose all the configuration files. However, this is a one-way operation and you can't go back. If you're sure you want to do this, you can then install and use `babel-eslint` as your parser.

2. **Using react-app-rewired**: This is a package that allows you to customize the configuration of `create-react-app` without ejecting. You can install it and then create a `config-overrides.js` file in your root directory where you can specify `babel-eslint` as your parser. Here's an example:

    ```javascript
    module.exports = function override(config, env) {
      config.module.rules.push({
        test: /\.(js|mjs|jsx|ts|tsx)$/,
        enforce: 'pre',
        use: [
          {
            options: {
              parser: 'babel-eslint',
              // Other ESLint options
            },
            loader: require.resolve('eslint-loader'),
          },
        ],
        include: paths.appSrc,
      });

      return config;
    };
    ```

3. **Using a different ESLint configuration**: If you don't need to use `babel-eslint` as your parser, you can use the ESLint configuration that comes with `create-react-app` and extend it as needed. You can add your own rules in the `rules` section of your `.eslintrc` file.

4. **Creating a new app with a custom template**: If you're starting a new project, you can create a new app with a custom template that includes your preferred ESLint configuration. For example, you can use the `cra-template-eslint` template:

    ```bash
    npx create-react-app my-app --template eslint
    ```

Remember that the best solution depends on your specific needs and constraints.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're encountering is due to the fact that `create-react-app` comes pre-configured with its own set of ESLint rules. When you try to add your own ESLint configuration on top of that, it can cause conflicts.

Here are a few steps you can take to resolve this issue:

1. **Eject from create-react-app**: This is the most drastic option. When you eject, you'll have full control over the configuration and dependencies of your project. However, this is a one-way operation. Once you eject, you can't go back. If you're comfortable managing your own configuration and dependencies, this might be a good option for you.

2. **Use react-app-rewired**: This is a package that allows you to customize the configuration of create-react-app without ejecting. You can use it to override the ESLint configuration that comes with create-react-app. However, this package is not officially supported by create-react-app, so use it at your own risk.

3. **Use eslint-config-react-app**: This is the ESLint configuration that comes with create-react-app. If you're okay with using this configuration, you can install it in your project and extend it in your `.eslintrc` file. This way, you'll avoid any conflicts with create-react-app.

4. **Disable ESLint in create-react-app**: If you don't want to use the ESLint configuration that comes with create-react-app, you can disable it. To do this, you'll need to eject from create-react-app and then remove the ESLint configuration from the webpack configuration.

Remember to always install the exact version of `babel-eslint` that `react-scripts` is designed to work with to avoid any version conflicts. You can check the exact version in the `package.json` file of the `react-scripts` package.

If you're still having trouble, please provide more information about the exact error message you're seeing and the steps you've taken so far.

--------
