
# Post \#64658031 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64658031/)

## Which Enzyme adapter works with React 17?

**Vote**: 73 (86/702) **Views**: 58756 (143/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-30

Created at 2020-11-03 06:55:03

Tags: `reactjs` `unit-testing` `enzyme`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a React app, and I want to start writing unit tests with Enzyme. Enzyme's [documentation](https://enzymejs.github.io/enzyme/) discusses versions of React up to 16.
In `src/setupTests.js` I currently have
```
import Enzyme from 'enzyme';
import Adapter from 'enzyme-adapter-react-16';

Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```

But my app uses React version 17.0.1. 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Enzyme currently does not officially support React 17. However, there is an unofficial adapter available that you can use. Here's how you can set it up:

First, install the unofficial adapter:

```bash
npm i --save @wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17
```

Then, update your `src/setupTests.js` file:

```javascript
import Enzyme from 'enzyme';
import Adapter from '@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17';

Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```

This should allow you to use Enzyme with React 17 until official support is released. Please note that since this is an unofficial adapter, there may be some inconsistencies or issues. 

Alternatively, you might want to consider using React Testing Library, which is recommended by React and supports React 17. It encourages more accessible coding practices and tests that more closely resemble how your app behaves in the real world.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Enzyme currently does not officially support React 17. However, there is an unofficial adapter available for React 17, `@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17`. 

You can install it using npm:

```bash
npm install --save @wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17
```

Or using yarn:

```bash
yarn add @wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17
```

Then you can update your `src/setupTests.js` file to use the new adapter:

```javascript
import Enzyme from 'enzyme';
import Adapter from '@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17';

Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```

Please note that since this is an unofficial package, it may not have the same level of support or stability as the official Enzyme adapters. You may want to consider using the official React Testing Library, which does support React 17, for your testing needs.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Enzyme does not officially support React 17 yet. However, there is an unofficial adapter available that you can use to test your React 17 app with Enzyme. 

Here is how you can set it up:

1. First, install the unofficial adapter by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm i --save @wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17
```

2. Then, update your `src/setupTests.js` file to use the new adapter:

```javascript
import Enzyme from 'enzyme';
import Adapter from '@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17';

Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```

Now you should be able to write and run your Enzyme tests with your React 17 app.

Please note that since this is an unofficial adapter, it may not support all features or may have some bugs. It's recommended to switch to the official adapter once it's available.

--------
