
# Post \#53441292 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53441292/)

## Why `downlevelIteration` is not on by default?

**Vote**: 149 (34/702) **Views**: 86969 (97/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-43

Created at 2018-11-23 05:54:35

Tags: `typescript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When targeting ES5 with usage of spread operator `...` to convert an `Iterator` to an `Array`, it shows the error to use `-downlevelIteration` compiler option. Once it is on, spread operators seem just work flawlessly.

I wonder why is there a need to specify this? Are there any downsides/limitation when it is enabled besides adding more emitted generated code from tslib?

Another example:  (eg. 3):

```
[...Array(3).keys()]  // output: [0, 1, 2]
```


It displays an error in VS Code:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/cSrYT.png)

Error message from `tsc`:

> Type 'IterableIterator' is not an array type or a string type. Use compiler option '--downlevelIteration' to allow iterating of iterators.

[Edit and view the code and error in TypeScript Playground](https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/#src=%5B...Array(3).keys()%5D)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The reason why you need to specify the `--downlevelIteration` compiler option when targeting ES5 is because the spread operator and `Array.from` method rely on the ES6 iteration protocol, which is not available in ES5. 

When you enable the `--downlevelIteration` option, TypeScript will emit additional code from the `tslib` library to provide the necessary iteration functionality for ES5. This additional code may increase the size of your compiled JavaScript output, but it is necessary to ensure that your code works as expected in ES5 environments.

As for any downsides or limitations of using the `--downlevelIteration` option, there are none that I am aware of. It is a necessary option if you want to use the spread operator or `Array.from` method with iterators in ES5 environments.

Regarding your second example, the error message is caused by the same issue - the `Array.keys()` method returns an iterator, which cannot be directly converted to an array in ES5 without the `--downlevelIteration` option.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The reason why you need to specify the `--downlevelIteration` compiler option when targeting ES5 is because the spread operator and other ES6 features that work with iterables (such as `for...of` loops) rely on the `Symbol.iterator` property that is not available in ES5. 

When you enable the `--downlevelIteration` option, TypeScript will generate additional code using the `tslib` library to emulate the behavior of `Symbol.iterator` and allow the spread operator and other iterable features to work with ES5 targets.

The downside of enabling `--downlevelIteration` is that it adds more emitted generated code from `tslib`, which may increase the size of your compiled JavaScript files. However, this is usually a small trade-off compared to the benefits of being able to use modern JavaScript features in older environments.

In the case of your example `[...Array(3).keys()]`, the error message is telling you that the `keys()` method returns an `IterableIterator<number>`, which is not an array or a string. To convert it to an array using the spread operator, you need to enable the `--downlevelIteration` option.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The reason why you need to specify the `--downlevelIteration` compiler option when targeting ES5 is because the spread operator and other ES6 features that rely on iterators were not originally part of the ES5 specification. Therefore, when targeting ES5, the TypeScript compiler needs to generate additional code to support these features.

The `--downlevelIteration` compiler option enables this additional code generation, allowing you to use ES6 features like the spread operator and iterators when targeting ES5.

As for downsides or limitations, enabling `--downlevelIteration` may result in slightly larger emitted code size due to the additional code generation. However, this is generally not a significant concern for most applications.

In summary, if you need to use ES6 features like the spread operator or iterators when targeting ES5, you should enable the `--downlevelIteration` compiler option.

--------
