
# Post \#71450038 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71450038/)

## How to patch the value of multiselect dropdown (primeng component) in a reactive form?

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 1414 (629/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-93

Created at 2022-03-12 13:19:16

Tags: `javascript` `angular` `angular-reactive-forms` `primeng` `primeng-dropdowns`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using primeng components in the template.
I have the option to edit the form, which displays the existing field values. I am not able to patch the value of multiselect dropdown.
```
excludeDays = [      
    {label: 'Mon', value: 1},
    {label: 'Tue', value: 2},
    {label: 'Wed', value: 3},
    {label: 'Thu', value: 4},
    {label: 'Fri', value: 5},
    {label: 'Sat', value: 6},
    {label: 'Sun', value: 7},
  ]
```

I have my backend data coming in as a string and then I am converting it into array of number like
```
[1,2] or[2,3,4]
```

Now after I press the edit button I want the values of the dropdown to be selected as above excludeDays values are there.
```
<div class="col-12" style="width: auto;" >
      <p-multiSelect [options]="excludeDays" optionLabel="label" defaultLabel="Select day" formControlName="excludeDays"></p-multiSelect> 
</div>
```

I am using
```
this.form.patchValue({
... : ....
excludeDays: converted array of (excludeDays) to number array
})
```

This is the console output of the excludeDays array after converting it into number array
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/HKdjr.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like you are trying to patch the value of the multiselect dropdown with an array of numbers, but the dropdown options are objects with a label and value property. You need to map the array of numbers to an array of objects with the corresponding label and value properties.

You can use the `map()` method to achieve this. Here's an example:

```
const selectedDays = [1, 2]; // example array of numbers
const selectedDaysObjects = selectedDays.map(day => {
  return this.excludeDays.find(d => d.value === day);
});
```

This code will create a new array `selectedDaysObjects` that contains objects with the corresponding label and value properties from the `excludeDays` array.

Then, you can use this new array to patch the value of the multiselect dropdown:

```
this.form.patchValue({
  ... : ....
  excludeDays: selectedDaysObjects
});
``` 

This should select the correct options in the multiselect dropdown based on the array of numbers you received from the backend.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To set the selected values in the multiselect dropdown, you need to pass an array of selected values to the `ngModel` or `formControlName` property of the `p-multiSelect` component. In your case, you can pass the converted array of `excludeDays` to the `formControlName` property like this:

```
<div class="col-12" style="width: auto;">
  <p-multiSelect [options]="excludeDays" optionLabel="label" defaultLabel="Select day" formControlName="excludeDays" [ngModel]="excludeDaysArray"></p-multiSelect> 
</div>
```

Here, `excludeDaysArray` is the converted array of `excludeDays` that you want to select in the dropdown. You can set this value in the `ngOnInit` method of your component like this:

```
ngOnInit() {
  // Convert the backend data string to an array of numbers
  const excludeDaysArray = this.backendDataString.split(',').map(Number);
  
  // Set the value of the excludeDays form control
  this.form.patchValue({
    excludeDays: excludeDaysArray
  });

  // Set the value of the excludeDaysArray property
  this.excludeDaysArray = excludeDaysArray;
}
```

Here, `backendDataString` is the string value that you receive from the backend, and `excludeDaysArray` is the converted array of numbers that you want to select in the dropdown. You can set the value of the `excludeDays` form control using the `patchValue` method of the `form` object, and then set the value of the `excludeDaysArray` property to the same value. This will select the appropriate values in the multiselect dropdown.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To set the selected values in the multiselect dropdown, you need to pass an array of selected values to the `formControlName` of the multiselect. You can do this by using the `setValue` method of the form control.

Here's an example code snippet that you can use:

```
// Assuming you have the converted array of excludeDays as excludeDaysArray
this.form.controls['excludeDays'].setValue(excludeDaysArray);
```

This will set the selected values in the multiselect dropdown based on the values in the `excludeDaysArray`. Make sure to call this code after the form has been initialized and the `excludeDays` options have been loaded.

--------
