
# Post \#61969722 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61969722/)

## How to enable `ignoreUndefinedProperties` in node js

**Vote**: 46 (133/702) **Views**: 18535 (314/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-82

Created at 2020-05-23 09:04:48

Tags: `javascript` `node.js` `express` `google-cloud-firestore`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am developing a REST api for my application in Nodejs and Express. But each time i try to send a request I get an undefined error. Please how can i enable 'ignoreundefinedproperties'


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're experiencing may not be directly related to a setting called 'ignoreundefinedproperties'. There isn't a built-in option in Express.js or Node.js called 'ignoreundefinedproperties'. 

However, the error you're seeing is likely due to trying to access a property of an object that hasn't been defined. This is a common error in JavaScript and can be mitigated by checking if the object and the property exist before trying to access it.

Here's an example:

```javascript
app.get('/api/route', (req, res) => {
    if(req.body && req.body.property){
        // Do something with req.body.property
    } else {
        // Handle the error or return a default value
    }
});
```

In this example, `req.body && req.body.property` checks if `req.body` is defined and if `req.body.property` is defined before trying to access it.

If you're using a newer version of JavaScript, you can use optional chaining which makes this even easier:

```javascript
app.get('/api/route', (req, res) => {
    const property = req.body?.property;
    if(property){
        // Do something with property
    } else {
        // Handle the error or return a default value
    }
});
```

In this example, `req.body?.property` will return `undefined` if `req.body` or `req.body.property` is not defined, preventing the undefined error.

If you're still having trouble, you might want to check your middleware setup in Express.js. Make sure you're using `body-parser` or the built-in `express.json()` middleware if you're trying to access JSON data from the request body.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you're trying to ignore undefined properties in your request. However, there's no built-in feature like 'ignoreundefinedproperties' in Express.js or Node.js. 

The error you're experiencing might be due to trying to access a property of an object that is undefined. To avoid this, you should always check if the object is defined before trying to access its properties.

Here's an example of how you can do this:

```javascript
app.post('/api/data', (req, res) => {
    let data = req.body.data;
    if(data){
        let property = data.property;
        // rest of your code
    } else {
        res.status(400).send('Bad Request: data is undefined');
    }
});
```

In this example, we first check if `data` is defined before trying to access `data.property`. If `data` is undefined, we send a 400 Bad Request response.

If you're using a database like Firestore, it has a feature to ignore undefined properties. Here's how you can enable it:

```javascript
const firestore = new Firestore({
  projectId: 'your-project-id',
  ignoreUndefinedProperties: true,
});
```

In this example, Firestore will ignore undefined properties when you try to write data to your database.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're encountering may not be related to a 'ignoreundefinedproperties' setting. In Node.js and Express, there isn't a built-in option to ignore undefined properties. The error might be due to trying to access a property of an undefined object.

Here are a few steps you can take to debug and fix your issue:

1. **Check your request body**: Make sure that the request body you're sending in your API call contains all the necessary properties that your API endpoint is expecting.

2. **Check your object properties**: If you're trying to access a property of an object, make sure that the object is defined before you try to access its properties. You can do this by adding a check like `if (object)` before trying to access `object.property`.

3. **Use a middleware to validate request**: You can use a middleware like `express-validator` to validate and sanitize your request data. This can help prevent errors due to missing or incorrect data.

4. **Use try/catch**: Wrap your code in a try/catch block to catch and handle errors. This can help you identify where the error is coming from.

5. **Check your error message**: The error message should give you more information about where and why the error is occurring. Make sure to read it carefully.

If you're using a database like Firestore, there is an option to ignore undefined properties. When you initialize your Firestore instance, you can set `ignoreUndefinedProperties` to true:

```javascript
const firestore = new Firestore({
  projectId: 'your-project-id',
  ignoreUndefinedProperties: true,
});
```

This will prevent Firestore from throwing errors when you try to write an object with undefined properties to your database. However, this won't prevent errors from occurring in your Node.js and Express code if you try to access a property of an undefined object.

--------
