
# Post \#58201173 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58201173/)

## How to push to vue-router without adding to history?

**Vote**: 23 (239/702) **Views**: 18785 (312/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-78

Created at 2019-10-02 12:06:07

Tags: `javascript` `vue.js` `vue-router`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have the following sequence happening:

- Main screen- Loading screen- Results screen

On homepage, when someone clicks a button, I send them to the loading screen, thru:

`this.$router.push({path: "/loading"});`

And once their task finishes, they are sent to the results screen via  

`this.$router.push({path: "/results/xxxx"});`

The problem is, usually they want to go from results back to the main screen, but when they click back, they're sent to loading again which sends them back to results, so they're stuck in an infinite loop & unable to go back to main screen.

Any ideas how to fix this? I'd ideally like if there was an option like:

`this.$router.push({path: "/loading", addToHistory: false});`

which would send them to the route without adding it to history.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

One solution to this problem is to use the `replace` method instead of `push` when navigating from the loading screen to the results screen. The `replace` method replaces the current route in the history stack with the new route, so when the user clicks the back button from the results screen, they will be taken directly to the main screen instead of the loading screen.

Here's an example of how you can use the `replace` method:

```
// Navigate from the loading screen to the results screen
this.$router.replace({ path: "/results/xxxx" });
```

Alternatively, you can use the `go` method to navigate back to the main screen without adding it to the history stack. Here's an example:

```
// Navigate back to the main screen without adding it to the history stack
this.$router.go(-2);
```

This will take the user back two steps in the history stack, effectively skipping the loading and results screens and taking them directly to the main screen.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

One solution to this problem is to use the `replace` method instead of `push` when navigating from the loading screen to the results screen. The `replace` method replaces the current route in the history stack with the new route, instead of adding it to the stack. This way, when the user clicks the back button from the results screen, they will be taken directly to the main screen, instead of going back to the loading screen.

Here's an example of how you can use the `replace` method:

```
// Navigate from loading screen to results screen
this.$router.replace({ path: "/results/xxxx" });
```

You can also use the `go` method to navigate back to a specific page in the history stack. For example, to go back to the main screen from the results screen, you can use:

```
// Navigate back to main screen
this.$router.go(-2);
```

This will go back two pages in the history stack, skipping the loading screen and going directly to the main screen.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

One solution to this problem is to use the `replace` method instead of `push` when navigating from the loading screen to the results screen. The `replace` method replaces the current route in the history with the new one, instead of adding it to the history. This way, when the user clicks the back button from the results screen, they will be taken directly to the main screen, instead of going back to the loading screen.

Here's an example of how you can use the `replace` method:

```
// Navigate from loading screen to results screen
this.$router.replace({ path: "/results/xxxx" });
```

Alternatively, you can use the `go` method to navigate back to the main screen from the results screen, without going through the loading screen:

```
// Navigate back to main screen
this.$router.go(-2);
```

The `go` method takes a parameter that specifies how many steps to go back in the history. In this case, we want to go back two steps, which will take us directly to the main screen.

--------
