
# Post \#61184749 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61184749/)

## How to properly reset Vue Composition Api's reactive values

**Vote**: 22 (248/702) **Views**: 17952 (322/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-128

Created at 2020-04-13 09:17:19

Tags: `javascript` `typescript` `vuejs3` `vue-composition-api`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm wondering how should I reset a reactive in vuejs setup? (i know if change it to the ref and using view.value will solve this problem, but there should be an answer to this for using reactive)
```
setup(props, context){
  // states
  const DataTable = reactive((null as unknown) as DataTable);
  const PolicyForm = reactive((null as unknown) as PolicyForm);
  let view = reactive(resetViewState());
  let config = reactive(
    (resetPreRegisterConfig() as unknown) as PreRegisterConfig
  );
  // methods:
  const fetchProfilelist = (
    pagination: Pagination{ page:1, size:15},
    sort_label: string = ""
  ) => {
    DataTable.fetchTablelist(api_fetchProfilelist, pagination, sort_label);
  };
  const pageRefresh = () => {
    view = resetViewState(); // 
    config = resetPreRegisterConfig();
    fetchProfilelist();

  };
  return {
    DataTable,
    PolicyForm,
    view,
    config,
    fetchProfilelist,
    pageRefresh
  }
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To reset a reactive object in Vue.js setup, you can simply assign a new value to it. In your code, you are already doing this for the `view` and `config` objects in the `pageRefresh` method. However, you need to make sure that any components or templates that are using these reactive objects are also updated with the new values.

One way to do this is to use the `toRefs` function to create a reactive reference to the reactive object. This allows you to access the individual properties of the object as separate reactive references, which can be used in your components or templates.

Here's an example of how you can reset a reactive object using `toRefs`:

```
import { reactive, toRefs } from 'vue';

const state = reactive({
  foo: 'bar',
  baz: 123,
});

const resetState = () => {
  const newState = {
    foo: 'baz',
    baz: 456,
  };
  Object.assign(state, newState);
};

const { foo, baz } = toRefs(state);

export default {
  setup() {
    // use foo and baz in your components or templates
    // ...
    
    return {
      foo,
      baz,
      resetState,
    };
  },
};
```

In this example, the `state` object is a reactive object with two properties: `foo` and `baz`. The `resetState` function assigns a new value to the `state` object using `Object.assign`. The `toRefs` function is used to create reactive references to the `foo` and `baz` properties, which can be used in your components or templates. Finally, the `foo`, `baz`, and `resetState` properties are returned from the `setup` function.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To reset a reactive object in Vue.js setup, you can simply assign a new value to it. In your code, you are already doing this for the `view` and `config` objects. However, you are creating new reactive objects instead of resetting the existing ones. 

To reset a reactive object, you can simply assign a new value to it using the `Object.assign()` method. Here's an example:

```
const resetViewState = () => {
  return {
    page: 1,
    size: 15,
    sort_label: "",
    search: "",
  };
};

let view = reactive(resetViewState());

const resetView = () => {
  Object.assign(view, resetViewState());
};
```

In this example, we define a `resetViewState()` function that returns a new object with default values. We then create a `view` reactive object using this function. To reset the `view` object, we define a `resetView()` function that uses the `Object.assign()` method to assign the default values to the `view` object.

You can use a similar approach to reset the `config` object and any other reactive objects in your code.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To reset a reactive object in Vue.js setup, you can simply assign a new value to it. In your code, you can reset the `view` and `config` objects by assigning them new values returned by the `resetViewState()` and `resetPreRegisterConfig()` functions respectively. Here's an updated version of your `pageRefresh()` method:

```
const pageRefresh = () => {
  view = resetViewState();
  config = resetPreRegisterConfig();
  fetchProfilelist();
};
```

This will reset the `view` and `config` objects to their initial values returned by the `resetViewState()` and `resetPreRegisterConfig()` functions respectively.

--------
