
# Post \#59552387 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59552387/)

## How to reload a page in Angular 8 the proper way

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 64314 (134/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-11

Created at 2020-01-01 12:09:21

Tags: `angular` `typescript` `router` `angular8`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------



I have two utility methods - one for navigating to the parent node and one for reloading self. The first one works as supposed to, while the other one fails to cause the reload.

```
navigateToParent(route: ActivatedRoute) {
  const options: NavigationExtras = { relativeTo: route };
  this.router.navigate([".."], options);
}

navigateToSelf(route: ActivatedRoute) {
  this.router.routeReuseStrategy.shouldReuseRoute = () => false;
  this.router.onSameUrlNavigation = "reload";
  const self = ".";
  this.router.navigate([self]);

  // const options: NavigationExtras = { relativeTo: route };
  // this.router.navigate(["."], options);
}
```


I followed the answer [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/57157316/1525840), with the only exception that I'd like my path navigated to, to be generic, not hard-coded. I've tried passing different parameters, like  and  etc. Nothing seems to give me the desired reload.

What do I miss?

I also tried to pick the parts from the  passed into the service's method but I only see a bunch of observables, not the actual segments. And, of course,  only caused an error.

Googling produced a lot of hints with vastly varying suggestions (e.g. [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56715352/how-to-refresh-element-in-angular-8-without-page-reload)), which leads me to the suspicion that it might be heavily dependent on the version (I'm on 8.0) and, also, that many of the suggestions, although accepted, might be misleading and more harmful in the long run, without me realizing it.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like you are trying to reload the current route in Angular. The approach you are using should work, but there are a few things you can try to debug the issue.

First, make sure that the `navigateToSelf` method is actually being called when you expect it to. You can add a console log or a breakpoint to check this.

Second, try removing the `routeReuseStrategy` and `onSameUrlNavigation` settings and see if that makes a difference. These settings are not necessary for a simple route reload.

Third, try passing an empty array to the `navigate` method instead of a single dot. This should reload the current route without changing any parameters or query strings.

Finally, if none of these solutions work, you can try using the `Location` service to manually reload the current URL. Here's an example:

```
import { Location } from '@angular/common';

constructor(private location: Location) {}

navigateToSelf() {
  this.location.replaceState(this.location.path());
}
```

This will replace the current URL with the same URL, effectively reloading the current route.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like you are trying to reload the current route in Angular. The code you provided looks correct, but there are a few things you can try to make it work.

First, make sure that you have imported the `Router` and `ActivatedRoute` from `@angular/router` in your component.

Second, try using `this.router.navigateByUrl('/', {skipLocationChange: true}).then(() => this.router.navigate([route]));` instead of `this.router.navigate([self]);`. This will navigate to the root URL and then navigate to the current route, effectively reloading it.

Finally, if none of the above works, try using a different approach. Instead of reloading the current route, you can navigate to a dummy route and then navigate back to the current route. For example:

```
navigateToSelf(route: ActivatedRoute) {
  this.router.navigate(['/dummy']).then(() => {
    this.router.navigate([route.routeConfig.path]);
  });
}
```

This will navigate to the `/dummy` route and then navigate back to the current route, effectively reloading it.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like you are trying to reload the current route in Angular. The code you have provided looks correct, but there are a few things you can try to debug the issue.

First, make sure that the `navigateToSelf` method is actually being called. You can add a console log statement to check this:

```
navigateToSelf(route: ActivatedRoute) {
  console.log('navigateToSelf called');
  this.router.routeReuseStrategy.shouldReuseRoute = () => false;
  this.router.onSameUrlNavigation = "reload";
  const self = ".";
  this.router.navigate([self]);
}
```

If the console log statement is not being printed, then the method is not being called.

If the method is being called, then try removing the `routeReuseStrategy` and `onSameUrlNavigation` lines and see if the reload works without them:

```
navigateToSelf(route: ActivatedRoute) {
  const self = ".";
  this.router.navigate([self]);
}
```

If the reload works without those lines, then the issue might be with those settings.

If none of these solutions work, then it might be an issue with the Angular version or some other configuration issue. In that case, you might want to try updating to a newer version of Angular or seeking help from the Angular community.

--------
