
# Post \#71626538 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71626538/)

## Defining multiple mapped types in typescript?

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 967 (660/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-48

Created at 2022-03-26 08:43:22

Tags: `typescript` `types`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Say I have the following typescript code:
```
type fruit = "apple" | "banana" | "pear"
type color = "red" | "yellow" | "green"
```

And I want to create a type that has a numeric property for each fruit and a boolean property for each color, something like
```
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```

Unfortunately, this errors with the message "A mapped type may not declare properties or methods", yet it compiles fine. What's actually happening here?
I can get around this with something like
```
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
} & {
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```

But I'd like to know what the actual issue is.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message "A mapped type may not declare properties or methods" is a bit misleading. The actual issue here is that TypeScript doesn't allow you to use multiple mapped types in a single type declaration. 

When you write:
```
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```
TypeScript interprets this as trying to create a single mapped type with keys from both `fruit` and `color`. This is not allowed because TypeScript doesn't know how to merge the two sets of keys together. 

In the case where the keys overlap (for example, if "apple" was both a fruit and a color), it wouldn't know whether to assign the type `number` or `boolean` to the "apple" property.

Your workaround is the correct way to achieve what you want. By using the intersection operator (`&`), you're creating two separate mapped types and then combining them together:
```
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
} & {
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```
This tells TypeScript to create one type with numeric properties for each fruit, another type with boolean properties for each color, and then merge them together into a single type. If there are any overlapping keys, the types of the properties in the resulting type will be the intersection of the types from the original types.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is because TypeScript doesn't allow you to declare two mapped types within the same type declaration. In other words, you can't have two `[key in ...]` in the same type.

When you write:

```typescript
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```

TypeScript is trying to create a type where each key can be either a fruit or a color, and the value can be either a number or a boolean. This is not possible because TypeScript doesn't allow a key to have two different types of values.

The workaround you provided is the correct way to achieve what you want. By using the intersection operator (`&`), you're creating a type that combines the properties of two different types:

```typescript
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
} & {
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```

This type will have a numeric property for each fruit and a boolean property for each color, which is what you wanted.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue is that TypeScript doesn't allow you to declare two mapped types in the same type declaration. This is because TypeScript doesn't know how to merge these two mapped types into one. 

In your case, the `fruit` and `color` types don't overlap, so it's not an issue, but consider a case where they did overlap. For example, if `fruit` and `color` both had a value of `"red"`, TypeScript wouldn't know whether to make `"red"` a `number` or a `boolean`.

The workaround you've found is the correct way to handle this. By using the intersection operator (`&`), you're telling TypeScript to merge these two types together. This works because the `fruit` and `color` types don't overlap. If they did overlap, the type on the right side of the `&` would overwrite the type on the left side. 

So, the actual issue is that TypeScript doesn't allow multiple mapped types in the same type declaration because it doesn't know how to merge them. The solution is to use the intersection operator to merge the types manually.

--------
