
# Post \#58078702 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58078702/)

## error An unexpected error occurred: "https://registry.yarnpkg.com/react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript: Not found"

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 33064 (218/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-91

Created at 2019-09-24 10:52:40

Tags: `typescript` `react-native`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After uninstalling the `react-native-cli`
i run this command to initiate a RN project with typescript template:

```
npx react-native init MyApp --template react-native-template-typescript
```


but i got this error:

> warning jest > jest-cli > jest-config > jest-environment-jsdom > jsdom> left-pad@1.3.0: use String.prototype.padStart()              error An unexpected error occurred:
    "[https://registry.yarnpkg.com/react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript](https://registry.yarnpkg.com/react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript):
    Not found".info  If you think this is a bug, please open .....
    [1/2] Removing module
    react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript...
    error This module isn't specified in a package.json file.
    info Visit [https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/remove](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/remove) for documentation
    about this command.                                              warn
    Failed to clean up template temp files in
    node_modules/react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript.
    This is not a critical error, you can work on your app.
    (node:8548) UnhandledPromiseRejectionWarning: Error: Command failed:
    yarn add react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs because the `react-native-template-typescript` package is not available in the registry. You can try the following steps to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of Node.js and npm installed on your system.
2. Clear the npm cache by running the following command:

   ```
   npm cache clean --force
   ```

3. Try running the `npx` command again to create the project:

   ```
   npx react-native init MyApp --template react-native-template-typescript
   ```

If the issue persists, you can try creating the project without the `--template` option and then manually adding TypeScript to the project. Here are the steps to do that:

1. Create a new React Native project:

   ```
   npx react-native init MyApp
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

   ```
   cd MyApp
   yarn add --dev typescript @types/react @types/react-native
   ```

3. Rename the `App.js` file to `App.tsx` and update its contents to use TypeScript syntax.

4. Update the `index.js` file to use the `App.tsx` file:

   ```javascript
   import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';
   import App from './App.tsx';
   import { name as appName } from './app.json';

   AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
   ```

5. Run the app to make sure everything is working:

   ```
   npx react-native run-ios
   ```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that the `react-native-template-typescript` package is not found in the registry. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Check your internet connection and make sure you have a stable connection.
2. Clear the cache of your package manager by running `npm cache clean --force` or `yarn cache clean`.
3. Try running the command again after some time as the package may have been temporarily unavailable.
4. If the issue persists, you can try using a different template or creating a new project without a template by running `npx react-native init MyApp --template react-native@latest`. 

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It seems like the `react-native-template-typescript` package is not available in the registry. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Check your internet connection and make sure you have a stable connection.
2. Clear the cache of your package manager. If you are using `npm`, run `npm cache clean --force`. If you are using `yarn`, run `yarn cache clean`.
3. Try running the command again after clearing the cache.

If the issue persists, you can try using a different template or creating a new project without a template and adding typescript manually.

--------
