
# Post \#64933543 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64933543/)

## Parsing error: Cannot read file '.../tsconfig.json'.eslint

**Vote**: 228 (15/702) **Views**: 151624 (50/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-46

Created at 2020-11-20 16:51:35

Tags: `node.js` `typescript` `eslint` `typescript-eslint`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

The error `Parsing error: Cannot read file '.../tsconfig.json'.eslint` shows in all `.ts` files in the `src` folder including `index.ts`.
I have no idea how to set up configs. The issue just shows a red line and makes the file red. However, everything compiles and run fine. The entire Node project was created using the firebase CLI.
`tsconfig.json` file:
```
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "module": "commonjs",
    "noImplicitReturns": true,
    "noUnusedLocals": true,
    "outDir": "lib",
    "sourceMap": true,
    "strict": true,
    "target": "es2017"
  },
  "compileOnSave": true,
  "include": [
    "src"
  ]
}
```

`.eslintrc.js` file:
```
module.exports = {
  env: {
    browser: true,
    es6: true,
    node: true,
  },
  extends: [
    "plugin:import/errors",
    "plugin:import/warnings",
    "plugin:import/typescript",
  ],
  parser: "@typescript-eslint/parser",
  parserOptions: {
    project: "tsconfig.json",
    sourceType: "module",
  },
  plugins: [
    "@typescript-eslint",
    "import",
  ],
  rules: {
    "@typescript-eslint/adjacent-overload-signatures": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-empty-function": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-empty-interface": "warn",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-floating-promises": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-namespace": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/no-unnecessary-type-assertion": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/prefer-for-of": "warn",
    "@typescript-eslint/triple-slash-reference": "error",
    "@typescript-eslint/unified-signatures": "warn",
    "comma-dangle": "warn",
    "constructor-super": "error",
    eqeqeq: ["warn", "always"],
    "import/no-deprecated": "warn",
    "import/no-extraneous-dependencies": "error",
    "import/no-unassigned-import": "warn",
    "no-cond-assign": "error",
    "no-duplicate-case": "error",
    "no-duplicate-imports": "error",
    "no-empty": [
      "error",
      {
        allowEmptyCatch: true,
      },
    ],
    "no-invalid-this": "error",
    "no-new-wrappers": "error",
    "no-param-reassign": "error",
    "no-redeclare": "error",
    "no-sequences": "error",
    "no-shadow": [
      "error",
      {
        hoist: "all",
      },
    ],
    "no-throw-literal": "error",
    "no-unsafe-finally": "error",
    "no-unused-labels": "error",
    "no-var": "warn",
    "no-void": "error",
    "prefer-const": "warn",
  },
  settings: {
    jsdoc: {
      tagNamePreference: {
        returns: "return",
      },
    },
  },
};
```

I had tried restarting VScode, clearing the cache, and all to no avail. I am guessing I need to change some of the paths but I am not very good at changing the config files so I don't want to accidentally break the entire project.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is because ESLint is trying to find the `tsconfig.json` file in the root directory of your project, but it's not there. 

In your `.eslintrc.js` file, you have specified the `project` option under `parserOptions` to be `"tsconfig.json"`. This tells ESLint to look for the `tsconfig.json` file in the root directory of your project.

If your `tsconfig.json` file is not in the root directory, you need to provide the correct relative path to it. For example, if your `tsconfig.json` file is inside a `config` directory in the root of your project, you would change the `project` option to `"./config/tsconfig.json"`.

So, you need to update the `project` path in the `.eslintrc.js` file to the correct relative path from the root directory of your project to the `tsconfig.json` file.

If your `tsconfig.json` file is in the root directory of your project, and you're still seeing this error, it could be a problem with your ESLint setup. You could try deleting your `node_modules` directory and running `npm install` again to see if that fixes the problem.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is from ESLint, which is a tool for identifying and reporting on patterns found in ECMAScript/JavaScript code. It's complaining that it can't read the `tsconfig.json` file.

In your `.eslintrc.js` file, you have specified the `project` option in `parserOptions` as `tsconfig.json`. This is a relative path, and ESLint will look for this file in the same directory as the `.eslintrc.js` file.

If your `tsconfig.json` file is not in the same directory as your `.eslintrc.js` file, you will need to provide the correct relative path. For example, if your `tsconfig.json` file is in the root directory of your project and your `.eslintrc.js` file is in a subdirectory, you would need to change the `project` option to `../tsconfig.json`.

Here is the updated `.eslintrc.js` file:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  env: {
    browser: true,
    es6: true,
    node: true,
  },
  extends: [
    "plugin:import/errors",
    "plugin:import/warnings",
    "plugin:import/typescript",
  ],
  parser: "@typescript-eslint/parser",
  parserOptions: {
    project: "../tsconfig.json", // Update this path to the correct relative path
    sourceType: "module",
  },
  plugins: [
    "@typescript-eslint",
    "import",
  ],
  // ... rest of your configuration
};
```

If the `tsconfig.json` file is in the root directory and the `.eslintrc.js` file is in the `src` directory, you would use `../tsconfig.json`. If they are both in the root directory, you would use `./tsconfig.json`.

After updating the path, you should restart your editor or the ESLint server for the changes to take effect. If you're still having issues, please let me know.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're seeing is likely due to ESLint not being able to find your `tsconfig.json` file. In your `.eslintrc.js` file, you've specified the `project` option under `parserOptions` as `"tsconfig.json"`. This tells ESLint to look for the `tsconfig.json` file in the same directory as the `.eslintrc.js` file.

If your `tsconfig.json` file is not in the same directory as your `.eslintrc.js` file, you'll need to provide the correct relative path. For example, if your `tsconfig.json` file is in the root directory of your project and your `.eslintrc.js` file is in a subdirectory, you would change the `project` option to `"../tsconfig.json"`.

If your `tsconfig.json` file is in the same directory as your `.eslintrc.js` file, there might be an issue with the file itself. Make sure the `tsconfig.json` file is properly formatted and doesn't contain any syntax errors.

You can also try to specify the absolute path to your `tsconfig.json` file in the `project` option to see if that resolves the issue. This would look something like this:

```javascript
parserOptions: {
  project: "/absolute/path/to/your/project/tsconfig.json",
  sourceType: "module",
},
```

Remember to replace `"/absolute/path/to/your/project/tsconfig.json"` with the actual absolute path to your `tsconfig.json` file.

--------
