
# Post \#59540900 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59540900/)

## How to upgrade Vue version

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 44847 (180/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-125

Created at 2019-12-31 07:21:14

Tags: `javascript` `php` `laravel` `vue.js` `webpack`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript` `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was using the Vue version (2.5), I ran that command `npm install -g @vue/cli` after that I check my vue version by using the command `vue --version`and it shows me `@vue/cli 4.1.2`. but in my package.json file the version did not upgrade, it still showing me the older version i.e 2.5.7. 
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/cKW6d.png) 

Any help would be highly appreciable


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The command `npm install -g @vue/cli` is used to install Vue CLI globally, not to upgrade the Vue.js version in your project. The Vue CLI is a full system for rapid Vue.js development, and its version is different from the Vue.js version.

If you want to upgrade the Vue.js version in your project, you need to update the version in your `package.json` file and then run `npm install` to install the new version. 

Here's how you can do it:

1. Open your `package.json` file.
2. Find the line that starts with `"vue":`.
3. Change the version number to the version you want to upgrade to. For example, if you want to upgrade to version 2.6.12, it should look like this: `"vue": "^2.6.12",`.
4. Save the `package.json` file.
5. Run `npm install` in your terminal.

This will install the new version of Vue.js in your project.

Please note that upgrading Vue.js version might break your application if there are breaking changes between the versions. Always make sure to test your application thoroughly after upgrading.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The command `npm install -g @vue/cli` installs Vue CLI globally, which is a tool for starting new Vue.js projects. It doesn't upgrade the Vue.js version in your existing projects.

The version you're seeing in your `package.json` file is the version of Vue.js that your project is using, not the version of Vue CLI. 

If you want to upgrade the Vue.js version in your project, you should do the following:

1. Open your `package.json` file.
2. Find the line that says `"vue": "^2.5.7"`.
3. Change it to the version you want, for example `"vue": "^2.6.0"`.
4. Save the `package.json` file.
5. Run `npm update` in your project directory. This will update the dependencies to the versions specified in your `package.json` file.

Please note that upgrading Vue.js version in your project might break your application if there are breaking changes between the version you're currently using and the version you're upgrading to. Always make sure to test your application thoroughly after upgrading.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The command `npm install -g @vue/cli` installs the Vue CLI globally, not the Vue.js library itself. The Vue CLI is a full system for rapid Vue.js development, providing things like scaffolding of new projects, task running, build processes and more.

The version of Vue.js that your project uses is determined by the dependencies in your `package.json` file. When you created your project, it was set up to use Vue.js 2.5.7, and installing a new version of the Vue CLI does not change that.

If you want to upgrade the version of Vue.js that your project uses, you need to update the version number in your `package.json` file and then run `npm install` to install the new version. 

However, please note that upgrading Vue.js from 2.x to 3.x is not as simple as just changing the version number. There are breaking changes between these versions, so you will need to update your code to work with Vue.js 3.x. Vue provides a [migration guide](https://v3.vuejs.org/guide/migration/introduction.html) to help with this process.

If you want to create a new project with the latest version of Vue.js, you can use the Vue CLI to do that. The command `vue create my-project` will create a new project with the latest version of Vue.js.

--------
