
# Post \#53964694 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53964694/)

## how do you declare an array of objects inside typescript?

**Vote**: 25 (228/702) **Views**: 69129 (126/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-47

Created at 2018-12-28 21:57:13

Tags: `javascript` `reactjs` `typescript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like to specify a function that takes an array of objects as a parameter, but I don't have a particular type defined for the object (a sort of "anonymous type")
```
bagTotal = (products) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

I understand I can do this:
```
bagTotal = (products: any[]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

but this is a bit more relaxed then what I want: to be strict with typescript.
`products` is an array of the same-looking objects; all objects have a name, a price and a description.
how can I declare that?
I want to do something like
```
bagTotal = (products: [{name: string, price: number, description: string}]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

but that's not right. How can I declare this?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can define an inline type for the objects in your array like this:

```typescript
bagTotal = (products: {name: string, price: number, description: string}[]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

This tells TypeScript that `products` is an array of objects, where each object has a `name` property of type `string`, a `price` property of type `number`, and a `description` property of type `string`.

Alternatively, you can define an interface for your product and then use that in your function declaration:

```typescript
interface Product {
  name: string;
  price: number;
  description: string;
}

bagTotal = (products: Product[]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

This approach is more reusable if you need to use the same type in multiple places.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can define an inline type for the array of objects in TypeScript like this:

```typescript
bagTotal = (products: {name: string, price: number, description: string}[]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

This will ensure that the `products` parameter is an array of objects, where each object has a `name` property of type `string`, a `price` property of type `number`, and a `description` property of type `string`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can define an inline type for your array of objects like this:

```typescript
bagTotal = (products: {name: string, price: number, description: string}[]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

This tells TypeScript that `products` is an array of objects, where each object has a `name` property of type `string`, a `price` property of type `number`, and a `description` property of type `string`.

However, it's generally a good practice to define a type or an interface for your objects, especially if you're going to use them in multiple places. Here's how you can do it:

```typescript
type Product = {
  name: string;
  price: number;
  description: string;
};

bagTotal = (products: Product[]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

This way, you can reuse the `Product` type wherever you need it, and if the structure of your product objects changes in the future, you only need to update it in one place.

--------
