
# Post \#46415343 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46415343/)

## Downgrade npm to an older version

**Vote**: 311 (5/702) **Views**: 486955 (8/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-122

Created at 2017-09-25 22:54:08

Tags: `node.js` `npm` `installation` `downgrade`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I tried updating `npm` to see if it would solve some dependency problems we were having, and now I want to downgrade to the version the rest of the development team is using. How can I install an older version?
I updated `npm` according to the instructions on the [About npm CLI versions](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm-versions):
> 
## The latest release of npm

The latest release of `npm` is the most recent stable version. When you install Node.js, `npm` is automatically installed. However, `npm` is released more frequently than Node.js, so to install the latest stable version of `npm`, on the command line, run:`npm install npm@latest -g`


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To install an older version of `npm`, you can use the following command:

```
npm install -g npm@<version>
```

Replace `<version>` with the specific version number you want to install. For example, if you want to install version 6.14.4, you would run:

```
npm install -g npm@6.14.4
```

This will install the specified version of `npm` globally on your system. You can then check the version of `npm` by running:

```
npm -v
```

Make sure to communicate with your team to ensure everyone is using the same version of `npm` to avoid any compatibility issues.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To install an older version of `npm`, you can use the following command:

```
npm install -g npm@<version>
```

Replace `<version>` with the specific version number you want to install. For example, if you want to install version 6.14.4, you would run:

```
npm install -g npm@6.14.4
```

This will install the specified version of `npm` globally on your system. You can then verify the version by running:

```
npm -v
```

This will display the version number of `npm` currently installed on your system.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To install an older version of `npm`, you can use the following command:

```
npm install -g npm@<version>
```

Replace `<version>` with the specific version number you want to install. For example, if you want to install version 6.14.4, you would run:

```
npm install -g npm@6.14.4
```

This will install the specified version of `npm` globally on your system. Keep in mind that you may need to update your `package.json` file to reflect the version of `npm` you are using.

--------
