
# Post \#53964694 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53964694/)

## how do you declare an array of objects inside typescript?

**Vote**: 25 (228/702) **Views**: 69129 (126/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-47

Created at 2018-12-28 21:57:13

Tags: `javascript` `reactjs` `typescript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I would like to specify a function that takes an array of objects as a parameter, but I don't have a particular type defined for the object (a sort of "anonymous type")
```
bagTotal = (products) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

I understand I can do this:
```
bagTotal = (products: any[]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

but this is a bit more relaxed then what I want: to be strict with typescript.
`products` is an array of the same-looking objects; all objects have a name, a price and a description.
how can I declare that?
I want to do something like
```
bagTotal = (products: [{name: string, price: number, description: string}]) => {
 // function does stuff
}
```

but that's not right. How can I declare this?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can define an interface that describes the shape of the objects in the array and use that as the type for the parameter. Here's an example:

```
interface Product {
  name: string;
  price: number;
  description: string;
}

bagTotal = (products: Product[]) => {
  // function does stuff
}
```

Now, `products` is an array of objects that must conform to the `Product` interface, which means they must have a `name` property that is a string, a `price` property that is a number, and a `description` property that is a string. This provides a more strict type check than using `any[]`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use an interface to define the structure of the objects in the array. Here's an example:

```
interface Product {
  name: string;
  price: number;
  description: string;
}

bagTotal = (products: Product[]) => {
  // function does stuff
}
```

This way, you can ensure that the objects in the `products` array have the required properties and types.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use an interface to define the shape of the objects in the array. Here's an example:

```
interface Product {
  name: string;
  price: number;
  description: string;
}

bagTotal = (products: Product[]) => {
  // function does stuff
}
```

This way, you can ensure that the objects in the `products` array have the correct properties and types.

--------
