
# Post \#72361047 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72361047/)

## Error: No "exports" main defined in graphql-upload/package.json

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 7364 (478/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-102

Created at 2022-05-24 10:10:12

Tags: `javascript` `graphql` `nestjs` `express-graphql`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Have installed graphql-upload, do
`import { graphqlUploadExpress } from 'graphql-upload';`
And getting this error:
Error: No "exports" main defined in graphql-upload/package.json
Dependencies:
```
"graphql-upload": "^14.0.0",
"graphql": "15.8.0",
"graphql-request": "^4.2.0",
"graphql-tools": "^8.2.0",
"@nestjs/axios": "^0.0.7",
"@nestjs/common": "^8.4.1",
"@nestjs/config": "^1.1.5",
"@nestjs/core": "^8.4.1",
"@nestjs/graphql": "^9.1.2",
"@nestjs/platform-express": "^8.0.0",
```

The version of node: v16.10.0


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is due to the fact that the `graphql-upload` package has undergone significant changes in its recent versions. The `graphqlUploadExpress` middleware has been removed in version 11.0.0 and onwards. 

Since you're using version 14.0.0 of `graphql-upload`, you won't be able to import `graphqlUploadExpress` as it no longer exists in this version.

If you want to continue using `graphqlUploadExpress`, you need to downgrade your `graphql-upload` package to a version below 11.0.0. You can do this by running:

```bash
npm uninstall graphql-upload
npm install graphql-upload@10.0.0
```

However, if you want to use the latest version of `graphql-upload`, you need to follow the new way of setting it up. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
import { ApolloServer } from 'apollo-server-express';
import { graphqlUploadExpress } from 'graphql-upload';

const server = new ApolloServer({
  schema,
  uploads: false, // disable built-in upload
});

app.use(graphqlUploadExpress({ maxFileSize: 10000000, maxFiles: 10 }));
server.applyMiddleware({ app });
```

Please note that you need to disable the built-in upload functionality of Apollo Server by setting `uploads: false` in the Apollo Server options. Then, you can use `graphqlUploadExpress` middleware from `graphql-upload` package.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're encountering is due to the fact that the `graphql-upload` package has undergone some significant changes in its latest versions. The `graphqlUploadExpress` middleware has been removed in version 11.0.0 and later. 

You're using version 14.0.0 of `graphql-upload`, so you won't be able to import `graphqlUploadExpress` from it. 

If you want to continue using `graphqlUploadExpress`, you'll need to downgrade your `graphql-upload` package to version 10.0.0 or earlier. You can do this by running:

```bash
npm uninstall graphql-upload
npm install graphql-upload@10.0.0
```

However, please note that using older versions might lack some features or bug fixes provided in the newer versions.

If you want to use the latest version of `graphql-upload`, you'll need to adjust your code to work without `graphqlUploadExpress`. The `graphql-upload` package now provides a `processRequest` function that you can use to process upload requests. Here's an example of how you might use it:

```javascript
import { processRequest } from 'graphql-upload';

app.use((req, res, next) => {
  if (req.is('multipart/form-data')) {
    processRequest(req, res)
      .then(body => {
        req.body = body;
        next();
      })
      .catch(next);
  } else {
    next();
  }
});
```

This middleware will process multipart form data requests (which are used for file uploads) and add the processed data to `req.body`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're encountering is because the `graphql-upload` package has undergone some changes in its recent versions. From version 11.0.0 onwards, the `graphqlUploadExpress` middleware has been removed. 

If you want to use `graphqlUploadExpress`, you need to downgrade your `graphql-upload` package to a version below 11.0.0. You can do this by running:

```bash
npm uninstall graphql-upload
npm install graphql-upload@10.0.0
```

Then, you should be able to import `graphqlUploadExpress` as you were trying to do:

```javascript
import { graphqlUploadExpress } from 'graphql-upload';
```

However, if you want to stick with the latest version of `graphql-upload`, you'll need to follow the new way of handling file uploads. You can refer to the [official documentation](https://github.com/jaydenseric/graphql-upload) for more information on how to do this.

--------
