
# Post \#57088357 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57088357/)

## AWS Lambda - Runtime.ImportModuleError: Error: Cannot find module 'jmespath'

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 24169 (269/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-72

Created at 2019-07-18 06:33:54

Tags: `node.js` `amazon-web-services` `aws-lambda` `serverless-framework`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am working with aws lambda using serverless framework, I changed the runtime from `nodejs8.10` to `nodejs10.x`, then I got an errortrace, 

```
{"errorType":"Runtime.ImportModuleError","errorMessage":"Error: Cannot find module 'jmespath'","stack":["Runtime.ImportModuleError: Error: Cannot find module 'jmespath'","    at _loadUserApp (/var/runtime/UserFunction.js:100:13)","    at Object.module.exports.load (/var/runtime/UserFunction.js:140:17)","    at Object.<anonymous> (/var/runtime/index.js:36:30)","    at Module._compile (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:701:30)","    at Object.Module._extensions..js (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:712:10)","    at Module.load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:600:32)","    at tryModuleLoad (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:539:12)","    at Function.Module._load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:531:3)","    at Function.Module.runMain (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:754:12)","    at startup (internal/bootstrap/node.js:283:19)"]}
```


What is the cause of this issue and how can get it fixed?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that the `jmespath` module is missing. This is likely because the `nodejs10.x` runtime does not include this module by default, while the `nodejs8.10` runtime did.

To fix this issue, you need to add the `jmespath` module to your project's dependencies. You can do this by adding it to your `package.json` file and then running `npm install` to install the module.

Here's an example of how to add the `jmespath` module to your `package.json` file:

```
{
  "name": "my-lambda-function",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "dependencies": {
    "jmespath": "^0.15.0"
  }
}
```

After adding the `jmespath` module to your dependencies, run `npm install` to install it. Then, redeploy your Lambda function and the error should be resolved.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the module `jmespath` is missing. This module is required by your Lambda function and needs to be installed in your project's `node_modules` directory.

To fix this issue, you can run the following command in your project directory:

```
npm install jmespath
```

This will install the `jmespath` module and its dependencies in your project's `node_modules` directory. Once the installation is complete, you can redeploy your Lambda function and it should work as expected.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the module `jmespath` cannot be found. This is likely because the module was installed for the previous runtime version (`nodejs8.10`) but not for the new runtime version (`nodejs10.x`).

To fix this issue, you can try running the following command in your project directory:

```
npm install jmespath
```

This will install the `jmespath` module for the current runtime version. Once the installation is complete, you can redeploy your serverless application and the error should be resolved.

--------
