
# Post \#52491253 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52491253/)

## How to get div 'text' value in Cypress test using jquery

**Vote**: 31 (190/702) **Views**: 135327 (59/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-10

Created at 2018-09-25 05:39:24

Tags: `javascript` `jquery` `cypress`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Using Jquery in Cypress.io test, how to get the div 'text' value called 'Wildness' from the below html tag. I have tried below in my Cypress test, but it is throwing undefined in console. 

```
const $divText = Cypress.$('.ibxudA .WildnessText-kRKTej').text()
         cy.wrap($divText)
           .should("eq", "Wildness")
```


```
<div class="sc-bMvGRv_onetwo">
<div>
<div class="abLeftSection">
<div class="abNewBtn-fTLJBK">
<button class="ifAKCX ohpWT" type="button">New</button>
</div>
<div class="kpLvEV" style="">
<div class="cWzXYZ">
<div class="OgGUG">
<div class="jsnnAD">
<svg class="dFvKsA"></svg>
</div>
</div>
<div class="ibxudA">First</div>
</div>
<div class="kpLvEV" style="">
<div class="bGADLM"><div class="OgGUG">
<div class="jsnnAD">
<svg class="dFvKsA"></svg>
</div>
</div>
<div class="ibxudA">
<div class="WildnessText-kRKTej" title="Wildness">Wildness</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
```




----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're encountering is due to the fact that Cypress commands are asynchronous and are enqueued to be run later, while jQuery is synchronous and executes immediately. 

In your code, you're trying to use jQuery to get the text of the div, but at the time this code is executed, the div might not be available in the DOM yet. 

Instead, you should use Cypress commands to interact with the DOM. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
cy.get('.ibxudA .WildnessText-kRKTej').invoke('text').then((text) => {
  expect(text).to.eq('Wildness');
});
```

In this code, `cy.get` is used to get the div, and `invoke('text')` is used to get its text. The `then` function is used to work with the result once it's available. 

This code will wait for the div to be available in the DOM, get its text, and then compare it to 'Wildness'.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue with your code is that you are trying to use jQuery to get the text of the div before the page has fully loaded. In Cypress, you should use its built-in commands to interact with the DOM, as these commands automatically wait for elements to exist.

Here's how you can get the text of the div using Cypress commands:

```javascript
cy.get('.ibxudA .WildnessText-kRKTej').invoke('text').then((text) => {
  expect(text).to.eq('Wildness');
});
```

In this code, `cy.get` is used to get the div with the class `WildnessText-kRKTej` that is a child of the div with the class `ibxudA`. The `invoke` command is then used to get the text of this div. The `then` command is used to work with the text once it has been retrieved. The `expect` command is used to assert that the text is equal to 'Wildness'.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue you're facing might be due to the fact that Cypress commands are asynchronous and they are enqueued to be run later. The jQuery command you're using to get the text is synchronous and it's executed immediately. 

So, when you're trying to get the text, the DOM might not be fully loaded yet, hence you're getting `undefined`.

You can use Cypress's `cy.get()` command to get the element and then use `invoke('text')` to get the text of the element. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
cy.get('.ibxudA .WildnessText-kRKTej').invoke('text').then((text) => {
  expect(text).to.eq('Wildness');
});
```

This command will wait for the element to appear in the DOM and then get its text. It's more reliable in this case because it respects the asynchronous nature of Cypress commands.

--------
