
# Post \#47545940 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47545940/)

## When I run `npm install`, it returns with `ERR! code EINTEGRITY` (npm 5.3.0)

**Vote**: 236 (12/702) **Views**: 295889 (22/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-58

Created at 2017-11-29 05:50:45

Tags: `node.js` `ubuntu` `npm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am getting this error while running `sudo npm install`. On my server, npm was installed earlier. I've tried to delete the `package-lock.json` file, and ran `npm cache clean --force`, but it didn't work. 

My npm version is 5.3.0.

The error:

```
npm ERR! code EINTEGRITY
npm ERR! sha512-MKiLiV+I1AA596t9w1sQJ8jkiSr5+ZKi0WKrYGUn6d1Fx+Ij4tIj+m2WMQSGczs5jZVxV339chE8iwk6F64wjA== integrity checksum failed when using sha512: wanted sha512-MKiLiV+I1AA596t9w1sQJ8jkiSr5+ZKi0WKrYGUn6d1Fx+Ij4tIj+m2WMQSGczs5jZVxV339chE8iwk6F64wjA== but got sha512-WXI95kpJrxw4Nnx8vVI90PuUhrQjnNgghBl5tn54rUNKZYbxv+4ACxUzPVpJEtWxKmeDwnQrzjc0C2bYmRJVKg==. (65117 bytes)

npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
npm ERR!     /home/ubuntu/.npm/_logs/2017-11-29T05_33_52_182Z-debug.log
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs when the integrity check of the package fails. It means that the package you are trying to install has been modified or corrupted during the download process.

To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Clear the npm cache by running `npm cache clean --force`.
2. Delete the `node_modules` folder and the `package-lock.json` file.
3. Run `npm install` again.

If the issue persists, you can try upgrading your npm version to the latest version by running `sudo npm install -g npm@latest`. 

If none of the above steps work, you can try deleting the `~/.npm` folder and then running `npm install` again. This will remove all the cached packages and force npm to download them again. 

If you are still facing the issue, you can try using `yarn` instead of `npm`. Yarn is a package manager that is known to be more reliable and faster than npm. You can install it by running `sudo npm install -g yarn` and then run `yarn install` instead of `npm install`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error is related to a failed integrity check of the package. You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Clear the npm cache by running the following command:
```
npm cache clean --force
```

2. Delete the `node_modules` folder and `package-lock.json` file.

3. Run `npm install` again.

If the above steps do not work, you can try updating your npm version to the latest version by running the following command:
```
sudo npm install -g npm@latest
```

Then, try running `npm install` again. If the issue still persists, you can try deleting the `node_modules` folder and `package-lock.json` file again, and then run `npm install --no-optional` to skip optional dependencies.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error occurs when the integrity check of the package fails. This can happen due to a network issue or a corrupted package. 

You can try the following steps to resolve the issue:

1. Clear the npm cache by running `npm cache clean --force`.
2. Delete the `node_modules` folder and the `package-lock.json` file.
3. Run `npm install` again.

If the issue persists, you can try updating your npm version to the latest stable version by running `sudo npm install -g npm@latest`. 

If none of the above steps work, you can try deleting the `node_modules` folder and the `package-lock.json` file, and then running `npm install --ignore-scripts`. This will skip the installation of any scripts defined in the `package.json` file.

If the issue still persists, you can try installing the package with the `--no-optional` flag, which will skip the installation of any optional dependencies. 

If none of these steps work, you can try reaching out to the package maintainer or posting a question on a relevant forum or community for further assistance.

--------
