
# Post \#65341400 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65341400/)

## How to Connect Heroku Redis TLS Node?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 5546 (509/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-35

Created at 2020-12-17 13:11:01

Tags: `node.js` `heroku` `heroku-redis`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I dont seem to be able to connect to Heroku Redis using TLS on Node.
These docs arent really much help: [https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/securing-heroku-redis](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/securing-heroku-redis)
Does anyone have a working example? Should I be using REDIS_URL or REDIS_TLS_URL?
Im using node_redis v3


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

To connect to Heroku Redis using TLS on Node, you should use the `REDIS_TLS_URL` environment variable. This URL includes the necessary information to connect to your Redis instance over TLS, including the hostname, port, password, and a flag indicating that TLS should be used.

Here's an example of how you can connect to Heroku Redis using TLS with the `node_redis` library:

```javascript
const redis = require('redis');
const url = require('url');

const redisURL = url.parse(process.env.REDIS_TLS_URL);
const client = redis.createClient({
    port: redisURL.port,
    host: redisURL.hostname,
    password: redisURL.auth.split(":")[1],
    tls: {
        rejectUnauthorized: false
    }
});

client.on('connect', function() {
    console.log('Connected to Redis');
});

client.on('error', function (err) {
    console.log('Redis error: ' + err);
});
```

In this example, we're parsing the `REDIS_TLS_URL` environment variable to extract the hostname, port, and password. We're also setting `rejectUnauthorized: false` in the `tls` options to allow connections to the Redis server even if the server's certificate is not trusted.

Please note that setting `rejectUnauthorized: false` is not recommended for production environments as it disables certain checks that make the TLS connection secure. You should replace this with the appropriate CA certificate for your Redis server in a production environment.

Also, remember to replace `REDIS_TLS_URL` with your actual Redis URL.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

To connect to Heroku Redis using TLS on Node, you should use the `REDIS_TLS_URL` environment variable. This URL contains all the necessary information to connect to your Redis instance over TLS, including the hostname, port, password, and a flag indicating that TLS should be used.

Here is a basic example of how you can connect to Heroku Redis using TLS in Node.js with the `node_redis` library:

```javascript
const redis = require('redis');
const url = require('url');

const redisURL = url.parse(process.env.REDIS_TLS_URL);
const client = redis.createClient({
    port: redisURL.port,
    host: redisURL.hostname,
    password: redisURL.auth.split(':')[1],
    tls: {
        rejectUnauthorized: false,
    },
});

client.on('connect', function() {
    console.log('Connected to Redis');
});

client.on('error', function(err) {
    console.log('Redis error: ' + err);
});
```

In this example, we're parsing the `REDIS_TLS_URL` environment variable to extract the hostname, port, and password. We're also setting `rejectUnauthorized` to `false` in the `tls` options to allow connections to the Redis server even if the server's SSL certificate is not trusted.

Please note that setting `rejectUnauthorized` to `false` may leave you vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. In a production environment, you should use a trusted certificate or a custom Certificate Authority.

Also, remember to replace `REDIS_TLS_URL` with your actual Redis URL. You can find this in your Heroku dashboard under the "Settings" tab of your Redis addon.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

To connect to Heroku Redis using TLS on Node, you should use the `REDIS_TLS_URL` environment variable. This URL includes the necessary information for connecting via TLS, including the hostname, port, and credentials.

Here is a basic example of how you can connect to Heroku Redis using TLS in Node.js with the `node_redis` library:

```javascript
const redis = require('redis');
const url = require('url');

let redisURL = url.parse(process.env.REDIS_TLS_URL);
let client = redis.createClient({
    port: redisURL.port,
    host: redisURL.hostname,
    password: redisURL.auth.split(":")[1],
    tls: {
        rejectUnauthorized: false
    }
});

client.on('connect', function() {
    console.log('Connected to Redis');
});

client.on('error', function (err) {
    console.log('Redis error: ' + err);
});
```

In this example, the `REDIS_TLS_URL` is parsed to extract the host, port, and password. The `tls` option is set to an object with `rejectUnauthorized: false` to allow connections to the server even if the SSL certificate is not trusted.

Please note that setting `rejectUnauthorized: false` can leave you vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. In a production environment, you should use a trusted certificate and set `rejectUnauthorized: true`.

Also, remember to replace `process.env.REDIS_TLS_URL` with your actual Redis TLS URL.

--------
