
# Post \#43002444 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43002444/)

## Make Axios send cookies in its requests automatically

**Vote**: 280 (6/702) **Views**: 524329 (5/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-77

Created at 2017-03-24 14:44:09

Tags: `javascript` `node.js` `express` `cookies` `axios`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am sending requests from the client to my Express.js server using Axios. 

I set a cookie on the client and I want to read that cookie from all Axios requests without adding them manually to request by hand. 

This is my clientside request example:

```
axios.get(`some api url`).then(response => ...
```


I tried to access headers or cookies by using these properties in my Express.js server:

```
req.headers
req.cookies
```


Neither of them contained any cookies. I am using cookie parser middleware:

```
app.use(cookieParser())
```


How do I make Axios send cookies in requests automatically? 

Edit:

I set cookie on the client like this:

```
import cookieClient from 'react-cookie'

...
let cookie = cookieClient.load('cookie-name')
if(cookie === undefined){
      axios.get('path/to/my/cookie/api').then(response => {
        if(response.status == 200){
          cookieClient.save('cookie-name', response.data, {path:'/'})
        }
      })
    }
...
```


While it's also using Axios, it is not relevant to the question. I simply want to embed cookies into all my requests once a cookie is set. 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

To make Axios send cookies automatically in every request, you need to set the `withCredentials` property to `true` in the Axios request configuration. This will include cookies in the request headers.

Here is how you can do it:

```javascript
axios.get('some api url', { withCredentials: true })
  .then(response => {
    // handle success
  })
  .catch(error => {
    // handle error
  });
```

If you want to set `withCredentials` to `true` for all requests, you can do it globally like this:

```javascript
axios.defaults.withCredentials = true;
```

Now, all your Axios requests will automatically include cookies.

Please note that for CORS requests, the server must also include the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` header set to `true` in the response, and the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header must not be set to `*` but to the specific origin making the request. 

Here is how you can do it in your Express.js server:

```javascript
app.use(function(req, res, next) {
  res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Credentials', true);
  res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', req.headers.origin);
  res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Methods', 'GET,PUT,POST,DELETE');
  res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Headers', 'X-Requested-With, X-HTTP-Method-Override, Content-Type, Accept');
  next();
});
```

Remember to replace `req.headers.origin` with your specific client-side domain.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Axios does not send cookies by default. You need to set the `withCredentials` option to `true` in the global axios defaults. This will make axios send cookies in all requests.

Here is how you can do it:

```javascript
axios.defaults.withCredentials = true;
```

After setting this, axios will automatically include cookies in all requests.

Please note that for CORS requests, the server must also allow credentials. You can do this in your Express.js server by setting the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` header to `true`.

Here is how you can do it:

```javascript
app.use(function(req, res, next) {
  res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Credentials', true);
  // other headers...
  next();
});
```

Also, make sure that you're setting the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header to the exact origin of the client, not `*`, because the `*` value doesn't work with credentials.

```javascript
app.use(function(req, res, next) {
  res.header('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', 'http://your-client-origin.com');
  // other headers...
  next();
});
```

Replace `'http://your-client-origin.com'` with the actual origin of your client.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

To make Axios send cookies automatically in every request, you need to set the `withCredentials` property to `true` in the global Axios defaults. This will include cookies in the headers of every request made by Axios.

Here is how you can do it:

```javascript
axios.defaults.withCredentials = true;
```

After setting this, Axios will automatically include cookies in the headers of every request. 

Please note that for CORS requests, the server must also be configured to allow credentials. In Express.js, you can do this by setting the `credentials` option to `true` in the CORS middleware:

```javascript
app.use(cors({
  origin: 'http://your-website.com', // replace with your client URL
  credentials: true
}));
```

Also, make sure that the domain of the cookie matches the domain of the request URL. If they don't match, the cookie will not be included in the request.

--------
