
# Post \#71889648 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71889648/)

## TypeError: _API.default is not a constructor with Jest tests

**Vote**: 1 (672/702) **Views**: 7655 (472/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-15

Created at 2022-04-15 22:53:32

Tags: `javascript` `reactjs` `react-native` `jestjs` `expo`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have an API class that I am trying to use in a React app.
```
// API file

class API {
...
}

export default API;

// Other file
import API from "utils/API";

const api = new API();
```

And I am getting the error:
```
TypeError: _API.default is not a constructor
```

But.. it seems like my default is set?
My Jest setup is like this:
```
"jest": {
    "setupFiles": [
      "./jestSetupFile.js"
    ],
    "testEnvironment": "jsdom",
    "preset": "jest-expo",
    "transformIgnorePatterns": [
      "node_modules/(?!((jest-)?react-native|@react-native(-community)?)|expo(nent)?|@expo(nent)?/.*|@expo-google-fonts/.*|react-navigation|@react-navigation/.*|@unimodules/.*|unimodules|sentry-expo|native-base|react-native-svg|react-router-native/.*|@invertase/react-native-apple-authentication/.*)"
    ]
  },
```

My  guess is that this is due to a configuration of my babel, webpack or package.json.
What could be causing this?
Note, I want to be clear, this doesn't happen whatsoever in my main application,  in Jest testing

---


If I change it to a named export/import, I get this:
```
TypeError: _API.API is not a constructor
```

 confusing behavior.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like the issue is related to the way the API class is being exported and imported. 

When you use `export default API`, you are exporting the API class as the default export of the module. This means that when you import it using `import API from "utils/API"`, you are importing the default export of the module, which is the API class itself.

However, the error message you are seeing suggests that Jest is not able to find the constructor for the API class. This could be due to a problem with the way the class is being transpiled by Babel or with the way Jest is configured to handle ES6 modules.

One thing you could try is to change the way you import the API class to a named import, like this:

```
import { API } from "utils/API";
```

And change the way you export the API class to a named export, like this:

```
export class API {
...
}
```

This should make it clear that you are importing and exporting the API class itself, rather than the default export of the module.

If this doesn't work, you may need to check your Babel and Jest configurations to make sure they are properly handling ES6 modules.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It seems like the issue is related to the way the API class is being exported and imported. 

When you use `export default API`, you are exporting the entire API class as the default export. This means that when you import it using `import API from "utils/API"`, you need to use `new API()` to create a new instance of the class.

However, when you use a named export like `export class API`, you are exporting the class itself as a named export. This means that when you import it using `import { API } from "utils/API"`, you can create a new instance of the class using `new API()`.

So, to fix the issue, you can either change the export statement to `export class API` and import it using `import { API } from "utils/API"`, or you can keep the current export statement and create a new instance of the class using `new API.default()`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like the issue might be related to how the API class is being exported and imported. 

When you use `export default API`, you are exporting the API class as the default export of the module. This means that when you import it using `import API from "utils/API"`, you are importing the default export of the module, which is the API class itself.

However, the error message you are seeing suggests that the import is not recognizing the API class as a constructor. This could be due to a few different reasons, such as:

- The API class is not actually being exported as a constructor. Double-check that the class definition includes a constructor method.
- There is another module in your application with the same name as the API class, and the import is resolving to that module instead. Try renaming the API class or the module to avoid naming conflicts.
- There is a problem with your Jest setup that is causing the import to fail. Make sure that your Jest configuration is correctly set up to handle ES6 modules and that any necessary Babel presets/plugins are installed and configured.

If you change the export to a named export, as in `export { API }`, you will need to import it using `import { API } from "utils/API"`. The error message you are seeing in this case suggests that the import is not recognizing the API class as a constructor. This could be due to similar reasons as above, such as a naming conflict or a problem with your Jest setup.

--------
