
# Post \#69505094 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69505094/)

## Chain 2 queries in RTK Query

**Vote**: 11 (370/702) **Views**: 5287 (515/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-29

Created at 2021-10-09 08:40:47

Tags: `javascript` `reactjs` `redux` `react-redux` `rtk-query`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

What is the proper way to chain queries if the 2nd query requires a parameter that is returned by the 1st?
```
const { data: user } = useGetUserQuery();
```

The user object contains an ID that is used to run
```
const { data: userBio} = useGetUserBioQuery(user.id);
```

How do I make sure the 2nd one runs only after the 1st one is fulfilled?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In order to chain queries and ensure that the second query runs only after the first one is fulfilled, you can use the useEffect hook from React. The useEffect hook allows you to perform side effects in function components.

Here is how you can do it:

```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';

function YourComponent() {
  const [userId, setUserId] = useState(null);
  const { data: user } = useGetUserQuery();

  useEffect(() => {
    if (user && user.id) {
      setUserId(user.id);
    }
  }, [user]);

  const { data: userBio } = useGetUserBioQuery(userId);

  // rest of your component
}
```

In this code, useEffect is used to watch the `user` object. When `user` changes (i.e., when the first query is fulfilled and the user object is populated), the effect runs and updates `userId` state with the new `user.id`. The second query then uses this `userId` to fetch the user bio.

Please note that `useGetUserBioQuery` should be able to handle `null` as `userId` because initially `userId` will be `null` until the first query is fulfilled and `userId` is set.

Also, you may want to add a loading state to your component to handle the time between when the component mounts and when the data is returned from the queries.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In order to chain queries where the second query depends on the result of the first, you can use a conditional statement to check if the data from the first query is available before running the second query. Here's an example of how you can do this:

```javascript
const { data: user, isLoading: isUserLoading } = useGetUserQuery();

if (isUserLoading) {
  return <div>Loading...</div>; // or your loading component
}

const { data: userBio, isLoading: isBioLoading } = useGetUserBioQuery(user.id);

if (isBioLoading) {
  return <div>Loading...</div>; // or your loading component
}

// Now you can use both user and userBio data
```

This code first checks if the user data is loading. If it is, it returns a loading component. Once the user data is available, it then runs the second query to get the user bio. If the bio data is loading, it returns a loading component. Once both data are available, you can use them in your component.

Please note that this is a simplified example. In a real-world application, you would likely want to handle errors and possibly use more complex loading states.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the useEffect hook to run the second query after the first one has returned the user data. Here's an example of how you can do it:

```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';

function YourComponent() {
  const { data: user } = useGetUserQuery();
  const [userId, setUserId] = useState(null);
  const { data: userBio, refetch: refetchUserBio } = useGetUserBioQuery(userId, {
    skip: !userId, // Skip the query initially
  });

  useEffect(() => {
    if (user && user.id) {
      setUserId(user.id); // This will trigger the second query
    }
  }, [user]);

  useEffect(() => {
    if (userId) {
      refetchUserBio(); // Refetch the second query when userId changes
    }
  }, [userId, refetchUserBio]);

  // Your component rendering...
}
```

In this example, the second query is skipped initially using the `skip` option. When the user data is available, the user's ID is set to the state, which triggers the second useEffect hook to refetch the second query.

Please note that the actual implementation might vary depending on the library you're using for data fetching. The above example assumes that you're using Apollo Client, which provides the `skip` option and the `refetch` function. If you're using a different library, please refer to its documentation for similar functionalities.

--------
