
# Post \#57712235 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57712235/)

## `ReferenceError: TextEncoder is not defined` when running `react-scripts test --env=jsdom`

**Vote**: 33 (185/702) **Views**: 33796 (211/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-130

Created at 2019-08-29 14:20:48

Tags: `reactjs` `tensorflow.js`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm using a TensorFlow encoder in my application. It works fine in my browser when the application is running but I get issues when testing that it builds:

```
$ npx react-scripts test --env=jsdom
FAIL  src/App.test.js
  â— Test suite failed to run

    ReferenceError: TextEncoder is not defined

      16 | import TextField from '@material-ui/core/TextField';
      17 | import Typography from '@material-ui/core/Typography';
    > 18 | import * as mobilenet from '@tensorflow-models/mobilenet';
         | ^
      19 | import * as UniversalSentenceEncoder from '@tensorflow-models/universal-sentence-encoder';
      20 | import * as tf from '@tensorflow/tfjs';
      21 | import axios from 'axios';

      at new PlatformBrowser (node_modules/@tensorflow/tfjs-core/src/platforms/platform_browser.ts:26:28)
      at Object.<anonymous> (node_modules/@tensorflow/tfjs-core/src/platforms/platform_browser.ts:50:30)
      at Object.<anonymous> (node_modules/@tensorflow/tfjs-core/src/index.ts:29:1)
      at Object.<anonymous> (node_modules/@tensorflow/tfjs-converter/src/executor/graph_model.ts:18:1)
      at Object.<anonymous> (node_modules/@tensorflow/tfjs-converter/src/index.ts:17:1)
      at Object.<anonymous> (node_modules/@tensorflow-models/mobilenet/dist/index.js:38:14)
      at Object.<anonymous> (src/components/model.js:18:1)
      at Object.<anonymous> (src/App.js:8:1)
      at Object.<anonymous> (src/App.test.js:3:1)
```


I'd like to get rid of that error. I've tried using the 'text-encoding' package but I'm not sure how get TextEncoder properly defined before the import happens.

Maybe I can set a different option for `--env`?

I get the same error without `--env=jsdom`. I believe I added it after getting similar types of not defined errors and it corrected an issue.

Here is my test:

```
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';

it('renders without crashing', () => {
  const div = document.createElement('div');
  ReactDOM.render(<App />, div);
  ReactDOM.unmountComponentAtNode(div);
});
```


So setting `--env=node` does not work either because: `ReferenceError: document is not defined`.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're seeing is because the `TextEncoder` class is not available in the Node.js environment by default. It's a global class in the browser, but not in Node.js. 

The `text-encoding` package you mentioned is a good solution. You can import it at the top of your test file, before any other imports, to ensure that `TextEncoder` is defined before any other code runs.

However, since Node.js version 11.0.0, `TextEncoder` and `TextDecoder` are built-in but they are not global, they are part of the `util` module.

Here's how you can use it:

```javascript
import { TextEncoder, TextDecoder } from 'util';
global.TextEncoder = TextEncoder;
global.TextDecoder = TextDecoder;
```

You can add this code to a setup file and then specify this file in your Jest configuration, so it runs before any tests:

```javascript
// jest.setup.js
import { TextEncoder, TextDecoder } from 'util';
global.TextEncoder = TextEncoder;
global.TextDecoder = TextDecoder;
```

Then, in your Jest configuration (which might be in your `package.json` or in a `jest.config.js` file), add:

```javascript
// jest.config.js
module.exports = {
  // your other config settings
  setupFiles: ['<rootDir>/jest.setup.js'],
};
```

This will make `TextEncoder` and `TextDecoder` available globally in your tests, just like they are in the browser.

As for the `document is not defined` error, this is because `document` is a browser-specific global variable, and it's not available in Node.js. If you're running tests that need to manipulate the DOM, you should use a library like `jsdom`, which emulates the browser environment in Node.js. You're already using `--env=jsdom`, so Jest should be using `jsdom` to emulate the browser environment. If you're still getting this error, make sure you're importing `jsdom` correctly and that it's installed as a dependency in your project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're facing is because the `TextEncoder` class is not available in the Node.js environment by default. It's a global class in browsers, but not in Node.js. 

Starting from Node.js v11.0.0, `TextEncoder` and `TextDecoder` are available as a global object, so you might not face this issue if you upgrade your Node.js version.

However, if you're using a version of Node.js where it's not available, you can use the `util` module to create an instance of `TextEncoder`. 

You can add the following lines at the top of your test file:

```javascript
const util = require('util');
global.TextEncoder = util.TextEncoder;
global.TextDecoder = util.TextDecoder;
```

This will define `TextEncoder` and `TextDecoder` in the global scope for your tests.

If you're using a version of Node.js where `TextEncoder` and `TextDecoder` are not available in the `util` module, you can use the `text-encoding` npm package. First, install the package:

```bash
npm install --save text-encoding
```

Then, add the following lines at the top of your test file:

```javascript
const { TextEncoder, TextDecoder } = require('text-encoding');
global.TextEncoder = TextEncoder;
global.TextDecoder = TextDecoder;
```

This should solve your issue.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're seeing is because the `TextEncoder` class is not available in the Node.js environment by default. It's a global class in browsers, but not in Node.js. 

You can solve this by polyfilling `TextEncoder` in your test setup file. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, install the `text-encoding` package if you haven't already:

   ```
   npm install --save text-encoding
   ```

2. Then, create a setup file for Jest. You can name it `setupTests.js` and put it in your `src` directory. In this file, import `TextEncoder` from `text-encoding` and assign it to the global object:

   ```javascript
   import { TextEncoder, TextDecoder } from 'text-encoding';
   
   global.TextEncoder = TextEncoder;
   global.TextDecoder = TextDecoder;
   ```

3. Finally, tell Jest to use this setup file. In your `package.json`, add a `jest` field (or modify it if it already exists) to include a `setupFiles` array:

   ```json
   "jest": {
     "setupFiles": ["<rootDir>/src/setupTests.js"]
   }
   ```

   Replace `<rootDir>` with the path to your `src` directory if it's different.

Now, when you run your tests, `TextEncoder` should be defined and your tests should pass.

As for the `--env` option, it sets the environment in which Jest runs. By default, Jest uses a browser-like environment through `jsdom`. If you set `--env=node`, Jest will use a Node.js environment. This is why `document` is not defined when you use `--env=node`, because `document` is a browser API. You should keep using `--env=jsdom` if your code relies on browser APIs.

--------
