
# Post \#62929428 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62929428/)

## Opposite of nullish coalescing operator

**Vote**: 42 (147/702) **Views**: 7498 (473/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-31

Created at 2020-07-16 07:15:09

Tags: `javascript` `typescript` `nullish-coalescing`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Nullish coalescing operator allows assigning a variable if it's not `null` or `undefined`, or an expression otherwise.
```
a = b ?? other
```

It is an improvement over previously used `||` because `||` will also assign other if `b` is empty string or other falsy, but not nullish value.
However, sometimes, we also use `&&` for value assignment, for example
```
a = b && func(b)
```

where we only want to do `func` on `b` if it's not nullish, otherwise assign the nullish `b`.
Of course, `&&` checks for falsiness, not nullishness. Is there a nullish version of `&&`?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

No, there is not a nullish version of `&&` in JavaScript. The `&&` operator checks for falsiness, not nullishness. 

However, you can achieve similar behavior by using the nullish coalescing operator (`??`) in combination with the ternary operator (`? :`). Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
a = (b !== null && b !== undefined) ? func(b) : b;
```

In this code, if `b` is not null or undefined, `func(b)` will be executed and its result will be assigned to `a`. If `b` is null or undefined, `b` will be assigned to `a`. This is essentially a nullish version of `&&`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

No, there is no nullish version of `&&` in JavaScript. The `&&` operator checks for falsiness, not nullishness. 

However, you can achieve similar functionality by using the nullish coalescing operator `??` in combination with the ternary operator `? :`.

Here is an example:

```javascript
a = b != null ? func(b) : b
```

In this case, if `b` is not null or undefined, `func(b)` will be executed and its result will be assigned to `a`. If `b` is null or undefined, `b` itself will be assigned to `a`. This is similar to using `&&` but it checks for nullishness instead of falsiness.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

No, there is not a nullish version of `&&` in JavaScript. The `??` operator is the only nullish operator in JavaScript.

However, you can achieve a similar effect by using the `??` operator in combination with the ternary operator (`? :`). Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
a = b !== null && b !== undefined ? func(b) : b;
```

This will only call `func(b)` if `b` is not null or undefined. If `b` is null or undefined, it will assign `b` to `a`.

--------
