
# Post \#65771294 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65771294/)

## NextJS deployed to Vercel: 404 page not found

**Vote**: 21 (256/702) **Views**: 26296 (252/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-1

Created at 2021-01-18 08:50:00

Tags: `next.js` `vercel`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a NextJS app without an integrated api that I want to deploy to Vercel. It works fine when I run it locally `yarn run dev` and I can also build it `yarn run build` without any errors. When I deploy it Vercel, however, I receive a `404 Error`.
Here is my folder structure:
```
app/
  - components
  - pages
    - editor
      - [id].tsx
    ...tsx
  - public
  - utils
    - db
      api.ts
```

I am using NextJs 10.0.3.
Here is a link to the deployed [app](https://clubhouse-bio-2qgg4rvij.vercel.app).
I don't have a nextjs config file. My assumption is that the error is caused by the dynamic route but I can't find my mistake. Also, no page is working when the app is deployed as opposed to only the dynamic page.
Do you have pointers on where to look next?
EDIT 1:
[Here](https://github.com/JanRuettinger/ClubhouseBio) is a link to the GitHub repo.
EDIT 2:
I found an issue but don't know how to fix it.
This is how my build output looks like on Vercel:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Vfw3p.png)
This is how it's supposed to look like on Vercel:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/HKeVr.png)
Not sure why the whole `_next` folder is missing.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Based on the information you provided, it seems that the issue might be related to the dynamic route you have in your app. When you deploy your app to Vercel, it might not be able to handle the dynamic route correctly.

To fix this issue, you can try adding a `next.config.js` file to the root of your project and configure it to handle dynamic routes. Here is an example configuration you can use:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/api/:path*',
        destination: 'https://your-api-url.com/:path*',
      },
      {
        source: '/editor/:id',
        destination: '/editor',
      },
    ];
  },
};
```

This configuration tells Next.js to rewrite the URL for the dynamic route `/editor/[id]` to `/editor`. This should fix the 404 error you are seeing when you deploy your app to Vercel.

Also, make sure that you have added the `vercel.json` file to the root of your project with the following content:

```json
{
  "builds": [{ "src": "package.json", "use": "@vercel/node" }],
  "routes": [
    {
      "src": "/api/(.*)",
      "dest": "utils/db/api.ts"
    },
    {
      "src": "/(.*)",
      "dest": "/"
    }
  ]
}
```

This tells Vercel how to build and deploy your app, and how to handle the API routes.

Let me know if this helps or if you have any further questions!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Based on the information you provided, it seems like the issue might be related to the dynamic route. Here are some things you can try:

1. Check if the dynamic route is correctly defined in your `pages` folder. Make sure that the file name matches the route name and that it has the correct file extension (`.tsx` in your case).

2. Check if the dynamic route is correctly linked in your code. Make sure that you are using the correct link path and that you are passing the correct parameters.

3. Check if the dynamic route is correctly deployed on Vercel. Make sure that the route is included in the list of routes that Vercel is serving.

4. Check if there are any errors in your Vercel logs. The logs might provide more information about the cause of the 404 error.

5. Check if there are any issues with your Vercel deployment settings. Make sure that you have configured Vercel to build and deploy your app correctly.

If none of these steps help, you might want to consider sharing your code or logs so that we can take a closer look.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Based on the information you provided, it seems like the issue might be related to the dynamic route. Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check if the dynamic route is correctly defined in your `pages` folder. Make sure the file name is `[id].tsx` and that it's located in a folder with the same name as the route (in this case, `editor`).

2. Check if the dynamic route is correctly linked in your code. In your case, you should be using the `Link` component from Next.js to link to the dynamic route. For example, `<Link href="/editor/[id]" as={`/editor/${id}`}>`.

3. Check if the dynamic route is correctly deployed on Vercel. Make sure that the route is correctly defined in your Vercel project settings, and that the build output includes the necessary files for the dynamic route.

If none of these solutions work, it might be helpful to share your code or provide more information about the error message you're receiving.

--------
