
# Post \#57070052 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57070052/)

## create-react-app Typescript 3.5, Path Alias

**Vote**: 58 (113/702) **Views**: 49286 (165/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-115

Created at 2019-07-17 06:49:53

Tags: `typescript` `create-react-app`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to setup Path alias in my project by adding these values to tsconfig.json:

```
"compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": "src",
    "paths": {
      "@store/*": ["store/*"]
    },
```


And if I create an import, neither IntelliJ or VSCode bother me:

```
import { AppState } from '@store/index';
```


But when I compile the application I get this warning:

```
The following changes are being made to your tsconfig.json file:
  - compilerOptions.paths must not be set (aliased imports are not supported)
```


And it bombs saying it cannot find the reference:

```
TypeScript error in C:/xyz.tsx(2,26):
Cannot find module '/store'.  TS2307
```


Is there any workaround or it is not supported by `create-react-app --typescript`?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It looks like the warning message is correct, as path aliases are not supported by default in `create-react-app --typescript`. However, there are some workarounds that you can try:

1. Use a custom webpack configuration: You can eject from `create-react-app` and modify the webpack configuration to support path aliases. This can be done by adding a `resolve.alias` property to the webpack configuration file. However, this approach has some drawbacks, such as losing the ability to easily update `create-react-app` and having to maintain the webpack configuration yourself.

2. Use a third-party library: There are some third-party libraries that can help you set up path aliases in `create-react-app`. One such library is `react-app-rewire-alias`, which allows you to set up path aliases without ejecting from `create-react-app`. You can install it using npm or yarn and follow the instructions in the documentation.

3. Use relative paths: If you don't want to use a custom webpack configuration or a third-party library, you can use relative paths instead of path aliases. For example, instead of using `import { AppState } from '@store/index';`, you can use `import { AppState } from '../store/index';`. This approach is less convenient, but it works without any additional configuration.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The warning you are seeing is because `create-react-app` does not support path aliases out of the box. However, you can still use path aliases by ejecting from `create-react-app` and configuring your own webpack configuration.

To eject from `create-react-app`, run the following command:

```
npm run eject
```

This will give you access to the webpack configuration files, which you can then modify to support path aliases.

Once you have ejected, you can modify the `webpack.config.js` file to include the following code:

```
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  // ...
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      '@store': path.resolve(__dirname, 'src/store'),
    },
  },
  // ...
};
```

This will create an alias for `@store` that points to the `src/store` directory.

After making these changes, you should be able to use path aliases in your TypeScript code without any issues.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The warning message you received is correct. `create-react-app` does not support path aliases out of the box. However, you can use a third-party library like `react-app-rewired` to customize the configuration of `create-react-app` and add support for path aliases.

Here are the steps to follow:

1. Install `react-app-rewired` and `customize-cra` as dev dependencies:

```
npm install --save-dev react-app-rewired customize-cra
```

2. Create a `config-overrides.js` file in the root of your project with the following content:

```
const { override, addWebpackAlias } = require('customize-cra');
const path = require('path');

module.exports = override(
  addWebpackAlias({
    '@store': path.resolve(__dirname, 'src/store'),
  })
);
```

This will add a webpack alias for `@store` that points to the `src/store` directory.

3. Update the `scripts` section of your `package.json` file to use `react-app-rewired` instead of `react-scripts`:

```
"scripts": {
  "start": "react-app-rewired start",
  "build": "react-app-rewired build",
  "test": "react-app-rewired test",
  "eject": "react-scripts eject"
}
```

4. Restart your development server:

```
npm start
```

Now you should be able to use path aliases in your code without any warnings or errors.

--------
