
# Post \#66654037 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66654037/)

## mongo-connect error with mongo-connect(session)

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 16994 (334/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-42

Created at 2021-03-16 11:11:10

Tags: `node.js` `express` `session` `mongo-collection`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After searching around about it, I can't find any solution or mistake in my `code` about this error. I've got my `app.js` files inside my node JS application with the `mongo-connect` declaration :
```
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo')(session)
```

And I've got this error :
> TypeError: Class constructor MongoStore cannot be invoked without
'new'
at Object. (/Users/souhailmohamed/project/devops/story website/app.js:11:20)
at Module._compile (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:1063:30)
at Object.Module._extensions..js (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:1092:10)
at Module.load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:928:32)
at Function.Module._load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:769:14)
at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (internal/modules/run_main.js:72:12)
at internal/main/run_main_module.js:17:47
There is my `app.use` code beloww :
```
app.use(session({
    secret: 'story book',
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: false,
    store: new MongoStore({ mongooseConnection: mongoose.connection })
}))
```

I understand pretty well about the
```
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo')(session)
```

but I didn't understand the error. But it's from a tutorial from youtube by traversy media [LinK](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SBvmnHTQIPY&t=4202s&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is because the `connect-mongo` package has been updated and the way to use it has changed. In the newer versions (from 4.0.0 and above), you need to use it differently.

Here's how you can modify your code:

```javascript
const session = require('express-session');
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo');

app.use(session({
    secret: 'story book',
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: false,
    store: MongoStore.create({ mongoUrl: 'mongodb://localhost/test-app' })
}));
```

In the `store` option, we're using `MongoStore.create()` instead of `new MongoStore()`. Also, we're passing `mongoUrl` which is the connection string for your MongoDB. Replace `'mongodb://localhost/test-app'` with your MongoDB connection string.

If you want to use the `mongoose.connection` object, you can do it like this:

```javascript
const mongoose = require('mongoose');
const session = require('express-session');
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo');

mongoose.connect('mongodb://localhost/test-app', { useNewUrlParser: true, useUnifiedTopology: true });

app.use(session({
    secret: 'story book',
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: false,
    store: MongoStore.create({ client: mongoose.connection.getClient() })
}));
```

In this case, we're using `mongoose.connection.getClient()` to get the MongoDB client from the Mongoose connection.

Remember to replace `'mongodb://localhost/test-app'` with your MongoDB connection string.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is because the `connect-mongo` package has been updated and the way you're using it is no longer valid. 

In the latest version of `connect-mongo`, you need to use it like this:

```javascript
const session = require('express-session');
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo');

app.use(session({
    secret: 'story book',
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: false,
    store: MongoStore.create({ mongoUrl: 'mongodb://localhost/test-app' })
}));
```

You need to replace `'mongodb://localhost/test-app'` with your own MongoDB connection string. 

The `mongooseConnection` option is no longer used in the latest version of `connect-mongo`. Instead, you should use the `mongoUrl` option to provide the MongoDB connection string.

If you want to use the old syntax, you need to install an older version of `connect-mongo`. You can do this by running `npm install connect-mongo@3.2.0`. However, it's generally a good idea to use the latest version of a package, because it will have the latest features and bug fixes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're seeing is because the `connect-mongo` package has been updated and the way you use it has changed. The code you're using is for an older version of `connect-mongo`.

In the latest versions of `connect-mongo`, you don't need to pass `session` when requiring the package. Instead, you should create a new instance of `MongoStore` and pass your session configuration to it.

Here's how you should update your code:

```javascript
const session = require('express-session');
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo');

app.use(session({
    secret: 'story book',
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: false,
    store: MongoStore.create({ mongoUrl: 'mongodb://localhost/test-app' }) // replace with your MongoDB connection string
}));
```

In this code, `MongoStore.create()` is used to create a new instance of `MongoStore`. You should replace `'mongodb://localhost/test-app'` with your MongoDB connection string.

If you want to use the `mongoose.connection` object, you can do it like this:

```javascript
const session = require('express-session');
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo');

app.use(session({
    secret: 'story book',
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: false,
    store: MongoStore.create({ client: mongoose.connection.getClient() })
}));
```

This will use the existing Mongoose connection to MongoDB.

--------
