
# Post \#71420974 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71420974/)

## Angular make subscribe to wait for response

**Vote**: 2 (631/702) **Views**: 15775 (344/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-38

Created at 2022-03-10 08:31:10

Tags: `javascript` `angular` `typescript` `asynchronous`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to subscribe to an Observable and assign some data from the response, but somehow my code it's not waiting for the response. Basically the console.log(this.newIds) is runned first and  is always empty because the subscribe doesn't wait for response to come from the backend. How I can force my code to wait for the response to come?
```
this.repository.getById(Ids).subscribe((response) => {
      console.log(response);
      this.newIds = response.map((id) => {
        return id;
      });
    });
    console.log(this.newIds);
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `async/await` syntax to make your code wait for the response to come before executing the next line of code. Here's an example of how you can modify your code to use `async/await`:

```
async getData() {
  const response = await this.repository.getById(Ids).toPromise();
  console.log(response);
  this.newIds = response.map((id) => {
    return id;
  });
  console.log(this.newIds);
}
```

In this code, the `getData()` function is marked as `async`, which allows us to use the `await` keyword inside it. The `await` keyword tells the function to wait for the `getById()` Observable to complete and return a value before continuing with the next line of code. 

We also use the `toPromise()` method to convert the Observable to a Promise, which allows us to use `await` with it. 

You can then call the `getData()` function to get the data and assign it to `this.newIds`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `async/await` syntax to make your code wait for the response to come before executing the next line of code. Here's an example:

```
async getData() {
  const response = await this.repository.getById(Ids).toPromise();
  console.log(response);
  this.newIds = response.map((id) => {
    return id;
  });
  console.log(this.newIds);
}
```

In this example, the `getData()` function is marked as `async`, which allows us to use the `await` keyword inside it. The `await` keyword tells the function to wait for the `getById()` Observable to complete and return a value before continuing with the next line of code.

We also use the `toPromise()` method to convert the Observable to a Promise, which allows us to use the `await` keyword.

You can then call the `getData()` function to get the data and assign it to `this.newIds`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use async/await to wait for the response to come before executing the next line of code. Here's an example of how you can modify your code:

```
async getData() {
  const response = await this.repository.getById(Ids).toPromise();
  console.log(response);
  this.newIds = response.map((id) => {
    return id;
  });
  console.log(this.newIds);
}
```

In this example, the `getData()` function is marked as `async`, which allows us to use the `await` keyword inside it. The `await` keyword waits for the `getById()` method to complete and return a response before moving on to the next line of code. 

You can then call the `getData()` function to get the data and assign it to `this.newIds`. The console.log statement inside the function will now print the correct data.

--------
