
# Post \#51785616 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51785616/)

## import error when using react-icons

**Vote**: 25 (228/702) **Views**: 84246 (101/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-86

Created at 2018-08-10 11:33:16

Tags: `reactjs`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have tried installing react icons, in my application I ran the npm command:

```
sudo npm install react-icons --save
```


I didn't get any errors, apart from some optional dependencies, that where skipped

```
npm WARN optional SKIPPING OPTIONAL DEPENDENCY: fsevents@1.2.4 
(node_modules/fsevents):
npm WARN notsup SKIPPING OPTIONAL DEPENDENCY: Unsupported platform for 
fsevents@1.2.4: wanted {"os":"darwin","arch":"any"} (current: 
{"os":"linux","arch":"x64"})
```


Whenever I try to import some of the icons, I get an error

```
./src/components/SkiDaysCount.js
Module not found: Can't resolve 'react-icons/lib/md' in ' 
'/home/kristoffer/ReactApps/navbar/src/components'
```


here are my imports:

```
import {Terrain} from 'react-icons/lib/md'
import {SnowFlake} from 'react-icons/lib/ti'
import {Calender} from 'react-icons/lib/fa'
```


Why am I getting this error?

EDIT:

i have also tried using the old syntax for importing, with the same issue as such:

```
import Calender from 'react-icons/lib/fa/calender'
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're encountering is due to the way you're trying to import the icons. The import paths you're using are outdated. 

React Icons has updated their import paths in version 3.0.0 and onwards. You should import icons like this:

```javascript
import { MdTerrain } from "react-icons/md";
import { TiSnowflake } from "react-icons/ti";
import { FaCalendar } from "react-icons/fa";
```

Please note that the icon names are in PascalCase (each word capitalized), not camelCase. So, it's `MdTerrain` not `Terrain`, `TiSnowflake` not `SnowFlake`, and `FaCalendar` not `Calender`.

Also, make sure the spelling is correct. It's `Calendar`, not `Calender`. 

If you still encounter issues, try deleting your `node_modules` folder and `package-lock.json` file, then run `npm install` again.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're encountering is due to the way you're trying to import the icons. The import paths you're using are incorrect. 

The correct way to import icons from `react-icons` is as follows:

```javascript
import { MdTerrain } from "react-icons/md";
import { TiSnowflake } from "react-icons/ti";
import { FaCalendar } from "react-icons/fa";
```

Please note that the names of the icons are case sensitive and should match exactly with the names provided in the `react-icons` library. For example, it's `TiSnowflake` not `SnowFlake`, and `FaCalendar` not `Calender`.

Also, the import path has changed in the newer versions of `react-icons`. You should now import from `react-icons/<icon-library>`. For example, `react-icons/fa` for Font Awesome, `react-icons/md` for Material Design, etc. 

Please update your imports accordingly and your issue should be resolved.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error you're encountering is because the import paths you're using are incorrect. The import paths have changed in the newer versions of `react-icons`.

In the version 3.0.0 and above, the import path should be like this:

```jsx
import { MdTerrain } from "react-icons/md";
import { TiSnowflake } from "react-icons/ti";
import { FaCalendar } from "react-icons/fa";
```

Please note that the icon names are in PascalCase (first letter of each word is capitalized) and the import path is directly from `"react-icons/<library>"`.

If you still encounter issues, please ensure you have the correct version of `react-icons` installed. You can check this by running `npm list react-icons`. If you're not on a version 3.0.0 or above, you may need to update your package. You can do this by running `npm install react-icons@latest`.

--------
