
# Post \#59188483 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59188483/)

## Error: Invalid login: 535-5.7.8 Username and Password not accepted

**Vote**: 47 (131/702) **Views**: 83608 (102/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-12

Created at 2019-12-05 04:55:24

Tags: `javascript` `node.js` `gmail` `smtp-auth`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

The code below is perfect to send emails using node.js code/program. However, still getting error mentioned in the title.

```
var nodemailer = require('nodemailer');

var transporter = nodemailer.createTransport({
  service: 'gmail',
  auth: {
    user: 'haideryaqoobengr@gmail.com',
    pass: '**********'
  }
});

var mailOptions = {
  from: 'haideryaqoobengr@gmail.com',
  to: 'haideryaqoob720@gmail.com',
  subject: 'Sending Email using Node.js',
  text: 'That was easy!'
};

transporter.sendMail(mailOptions, function(error, info){
  if (error) {
    console.log(error);
  } else {
    console.log('Email sent: ' + info.response);
  }
});
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error you are getting might be related to the security settings of your Gmail account. Gmail has strict security measures in place to prevent unauthorized access to your account. You need to enable "Less secure app access" in your Gmail account settings to allow nodemailer to access your account.

To enable "Less secure app access", follow these steps:

1. Go to your Google Account settings.
2. Click on "Security" in the left-hand menu.
3. Scroll down to the "Less secure app access" section.
4. Turn on the "Allow less secure apps" toggle.

After enabling "Less secure app access", try running your code again. It should work without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error you are encountering might be due to the fact that your Gmail account has security features that prevent less secure apps from accessing it. To fix this, you need to enable "Allow less secure apps" in your Gmail account settings. Here's how:

1. Go to your Google Account settings page.
2. Click on "Security" in the left-hand menu.
3. Scroll down to the "Less secure app access" section and turn on the toggle switch.
4. Try running your code again and see if the error persists.

Note that enabling this option may make your account more vulnerable to hacking attempts, so use it at your own risk. Alternatively, you can use OAuth2 authentication to authenticate your Gmail account with nodemailer.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error you are getting might be related to the security settings of your Gmail account. Gmail has security measures in place to prevent unauthorized access to your account. You need to enable "Less Secure Apps" in your Gmail account settings to allow nodemailer to access your account. 

To enable "Less Secure Apps", follow these steps:

1. Go to your Google Account settings.
2. Click on "Security" in the left-hand menu.
3. Scroll down to the "Less secure app access" section and turn on the toggle switch.
4. Try running your code again.

If you still face the same error, you can try using an app password instead of your account password. To generate an app password, follow these steps:

1. Go to your Google Account settings.
2. Click on "Security" in the left-hand menu.
3. Scroll down to the "Signing in to Google" section and click on "App passwords".
4. Select "Mail" and "Other (custom name)" from the drop-down menus.
5. Enter a name for your app password and click on "Generate".
6. Use the generated password in your nodemailer code instead of your account password.

I hope this helps!

--------
