
# Post \#64658031 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64658031/)

## Which Enzyme adapter works with React 17?

**Vote**: 73 (86/702) **Views**: 58756 (143/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-30

Created at 2020-11-03 06:55:03

Tags: `reactjs` `unit-testing` `enzyme`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a React app, and I want to start writing unit tests with Enzyme. Enzyme's [documentation](https://enzymejs.github.io/enzyme/) discusses versions of React up to 16.
In `src/setupTests.js` I currently have
```
import Enzyme from 'enzyme';
import Adapter from 'enzyme-adapter-react-16';

Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```

But my app uses React version 17.0.1. 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Enzyme has not yet released an adapter for React 17, but you can use the `@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17` package as a temporary solution. 

First, install the package by running:

```
npm install --save-dev @wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17
```

Then, update your `src/setupTests.js` file to use the new adapter:

```
import Enzyme from 'enzyme';
import Adapter from '@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17';

Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```

With this adapter, you should be able to write unit tests for your React 17 app using Enzyme. Keep in mind that this is a temporary solution until Enzyme releases an official adapter for React 17.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Enzyme does not officially support React 17 yet, but there is a community-supported adapter that you can use. You can install it by running:

```
npm install --save-dev @wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17
```

Then, in your `src/setupTests.js` file, you can import and use the adapter like this:

```
import Enzyme from 'enzyme';
import Adapter from '@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17';

Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```

Keep in mind that since this adapter is not officially supported by Enzyme, there may be some limitations or issues that you encounter while using it.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Enzyme has not yet released an adapter for React 17, but you can still use Enzyme with React 17 by installing the `@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17` package instead of `enzyme-adapter-react-16`. 

To do this, first uninstall the `enzyme-adapter-react-16` package:

```
npm uninstall enzyme-adapter-react-16
```

Then install the `@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17` package:

```
npm install --save-dev @wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17
```

Finally, update your `src/setupTests.js` file to use the new adapter:

```
import Enzyme from 'enzyme';
import Adapter from '@wojtekmaj/enzyme-adapter-react-17';

Enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```

With this setup, you should be able to write and run Enzyme tests for your React 17 app.

--------
