
# Post \#59978450 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59978450/)

## How to do app versioning in create react app?

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 14774 (359/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-98

Created at 2020-01-30 02:51:37

Tags: `reactjs` `webpack` `version` `versioning` `build-numbers`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I need to display  of my react app in the footer in  format.

I need this version to increment every time I deploy the app by being provided a choice if I want to increment  or  or .

How do I achieve this? :)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

To achieve this, you can use a versioning system in your React app. Here's a step-by-step guide on how you can do it:

1. **Create a version.js file**: Create a new file in your src directory called version.js. This file will hold your current version number.

```javascript
export default {
  major: 0,
  minor: 0,
  patch: 1,
};
```

2. **Create a versioning script**: Create a new file in your root directory called versioning.js. This script will increment your version number based on the argument you pass to it.

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');
const path = require('path');

const versionPath = path.join(__dirname, 'src', 'version.js');
const version = require(versionPath);

const incrementVersion = (type) => {
  version[type]++;
  if (type === 'major') {
    version.minor = 0;
    version.patch = 0;
  } else if (type === 'minor') {
    version.patch = 0;
  }

  return version;
};

const newVersion = incrementVersion(process.argv[2] || 'patch');

const versionFileContent = `export default {\n  major: ${newVersion.major},\n  minor: ${newVersion.minor},\n  patch: ${newVersion.patch},\n};\n`;

fs.writeFileSync(versionPath, versionFileContent);
```

3. **Add a versioning script to your package.json**: Add a new script to your package.json file that will run your versioning script.

```json
"scripts": {
  "versioning": "node versioning.js"
}
```

4. **Display the version in your footer**: Import the version from your version.js file and display it in your footer.

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import version from './version';

const Footer = () => (
  <footer>
    <p>Version: {version.major}.{version.minor}.{version.patch}</p>
  </footer>
);

export default Footer;
```

5. **Run the versioning script before deploying**: Before you deploy your app, run the versioning script with the argument you want to increment. For example, if you want to increment the minor version, you would run `npm run versioning minor`.

This will increment the version number in your version.js file, and the new version number will be displayed in your footer the next time you deploy your app.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

To achieve this, you can use a versioning system that increments the version number every time you deploy your app. Here's a simple way to do it:

1. **Store the version in your package.json**: You can store the version of your app in the `package.json` file. This is a common practice and it allows you to easily increment the version number using npm versioning system.

```json
{
  "name": "my-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  ...
}
```

2. **Increment the version**: You can increment the version number using the `npm version` command. This command will also create a git tag with the new version number.

- To increment the patch version: `npm version patch`
- To increment the minor version: `npm version minor`
- To increment the major version: `npm version major`

3. **Display the version in your app**: You can import the version number from your `package.json` file and display it in your app.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { version } from '../package.json';

const Footer = () => (
  <footer>
    <p>Version: {version}</p>
  </footer>
);

export default Footer;
```

4. **Automate the process**: You can automate the process of incrementing the version number and deploying your app using a continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) tool. This tool can run the `npm version` command and deploy your app every time you push changes to your repository.

Remember to commit and push the changes after running the `npm version` command to ensure that the updated `package.json` file is included in your repository.

Please note that this is a simple way to manage the version of your app and it may not fit all use cases. Depending on your needs, you may want to use a more sophisticated versioning system or a tool specifically designed for version management.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

To achieve this, you can use a versioning system. Here's a simple way to do this:

1. **Create a version.js file**: This file will hold your current version. You can place it in your src directory.

```javascript
export default {
    major: 1,
    minor: 0,
    patch: 0
};
```

2. **Display the version in your footer**: Import the version from version.js into your footer component and display it.

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import version from './version';

const Footer = () => (
    <div>
        <p>Version: {version.major}.{version.minor}.{version.patch}</p>
    </div>
);

export default Footer;
```

3. **Increment the version**: Before each deployment, you can manually increment the major, minor, or patch version in version.js based on your changes.

This is a simple way to manage versioning. However, it's manual and prone to errors. For a more robust solution, you can use automated versioning tools like [semantic-release](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) or [standard-version](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/standard-version). These tools automatically manage your version based on your commit messages.

For example, with semantic-release:

- Commits of the type fix will trigger a patch release (Update the x in x.y.z)
- Commits of the type feat will trigger a minor release (Update the y in x.y.z)
- Commits with BREAKING CHANGE in the body or with ! in the type/scope will trigger a major release (Update the z in x.y.z)

You can then use environment variables to pass the version number to your app. This way, your version will be updated automatically every time you deploy your app.

--------
