
# Post \#59305534 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59305534/)

## Parse JSON with undefined value?

**Vote**: -3 (702/702) **Views**: 17804 (324/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-109

Created at 2019-12-12 13:18:15

Tags: `javascript` `json` `undefined`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

>  [Parsing or fixing JSONs with special 'undefined' values?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59304404/parsing-or-fixing-jsons-with-special-undefined-value/)

I would like to know if it's possible to parse something like`javascript JSON.parse('{ "name": undefined}');`
generated by the API?

The above code errors. 

Is there some way of parsing it? - my actual example is  longer (see [here](https://pastebin.com/98KGhTmf)), I just use the very short example for illustrative purposes

Note: 

- [Here](https://www.seek.com.au/jobs?keywords=R%20"data%20scientist"%20?sortmode=ListedDate)- [Here](https://pastebin.com/bgZihV4U)`Single Column Serp v3``Single undefined Column Serp v3``undefined`


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Unfortunately, it is not possible to parse `undefined` values in JSON. According to the JSON specification, the only valid values are `null`, `true`, `false`, numbers, strings, arrays, and objects. 

If you have control over the API that is generating the JSON, you should modify it to use `null` instead of `undefined`. If you don't have control over the API, you could try using a regular expression to replace all occurrences of `"undefined"` with `"null"` before parsing the JSON. 

Here's an example in JavaScript:

```
const jsonString = '{ "name": undefined }';
const fixedJsonString = jsonString.replace(/undefined/g, 'null');
const parsedJson = JSON.parse(fixedJsonString);
```

Note that this will only work if the `undefined` values are represented as strings in the JSON. If they are actual `undefined` values, there is no way to parse them.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Unfortunately, it is not possible to parse `undefined` values in JSON. According to the JSON specification, `undefined` is not a valid value and should not be used in JSON. 

If you have control over the API that is generating the JSON, you should modify it to use a valid value instead of `undefined`. 

If you do not have control over the API, you can try to modify the JSON string before parsing it. One approach is to replace all occurrences of `undefined` with `null` using a regular expression. For example:

```
const jsonString = '{ "name": undefined}';
const fixedJsonString = jsonString.replace(/undefined/g, 'null');
const parsedJson = JSON.parse(fixedJsonString);
```

This will replace all occurrences of `undefined` with `null` and allow you to parse the JSON string. However, this approach may not work if the `undefined` value is used in a key or string value.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Unfortunately, it is not possible to parse `undefined` values in JSON. According to the JSON specification, `undefined` is not a valid value and should not be used. 

If you have control over the API that is generating the JSON, you should modify it to use a valid value instead of `undefined`. 

If you do not have control over the API, you can try to modify the JSON string before parsing it. One approach is to use a regular expression to replace all occurrences of `"undefined"` with `null`, which is a valid JSON value. Here's an example:

```
const jsonString = '{ "name": undefined }';
const fixedJsonString = jsonString.replace(/"undefined"/g, 'null');
const parsedJson = JSON.parse(fixedJsonString);
```

However, this approach may not work in all cases, especially if the `undefined` value is nested within a more complex JSON structure. In that case, you may need to write a custom parser that can handle the `undefined` value.

--------
