
# Post \#72564710 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72564710/)

## React Native crash release build - FATAL EXCEPTION: create_react_context

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 5731 (506/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-81

Created at 2022-06-09 18:01:50

Tags: `react-native`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

There is no problem in the development environment, but when I get the release build, the app crashes. (Android) I created a new project (v0.68.2), I didn't make any changes, the room crashed in the same way.
```
npx react-native run-android --variant=release
```

- 
```
FATAL EXCEPTION: create_react_context

java.lang.RuntimeException: Unable to load script. Make sure you're either running Metro (run 'npx react-native start') or that your bundle 'index.android.bundle' is packaged correctly for release.

FATAL EXCEPTION: create_react_context
Process: com.testreleasebuild, PID: 8291
java.lang.RuntimeException: Unable to load script. Make sure you're either running Metro (run 'npx react-native start') or that your bundle 'index.android.bundle' is packaged correctly for release.
    at com.facebook.react.bridge.CatalystInstanceImpl.jniLoadScriptFromAssets(Native Method)
    at com.facebook.react.bridge.CatalystInstanceImpl.loadScriptFromAssets(CatalystInstanceImpl.java:248)
    at com.facebook.react.bridge.JSBundleLoader$1.loadScript(JSBundleLoader.java:29)
    at com.facebook.react.bridge.CatalystInstanceImpl.runJSBundle(CatalystInstanceImpl.java:277)
    at com.facebook.react.ReactInstanceManager.createReactContext(ReactInstanceManager.java:1422)
    at com.facebook.react.ReactInstanceManager.access$1200(ReactInstanceManager.java:138)
    at com.facebook.react.ReactInstanceManager$5.run(ReactInstanceManager.java:1111)
    at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:923)
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that the `index.android.bundle` file is not found or not packaged correctly for release. This file is the JavaScript bundle that your React Native app runs. In development, Metro serves this file, but for the release build, you need to bundle it with your app.

Here are the steps to generate the `index.android.bundle`:

1. Create a new folder in your project's directory named `assets` inside `android/app/src/main`.

2. Run the following command in your project's root directory:

```bash
npx react-native bundle --platform android --dev false --entry-file index.js --bundle-output android/app/src/main/assets/index.android.bundle --assets-dest android/app/src/main/res
```

This command creates the JavaScript bundle and the assets for the Android app.

3. Now, you can create the release build:

```bash
npx react-native run-android --variant=release
```

If you're still having issues, check your `android/app/build.gradle` file. Make sure the `bundleInRelease` and `bundleInDebug` are set correctly:

```groovy
project.ext.react = [
    enableHermes: false,  // clean and rebuild if changing
    bundleInRelease: true,
    bundleInDebug: true
]
```

If you made changes to the `build.gradle` file, you need to clean and rebuild your project:

```bash
cd android && ./gradlew clean
```

Then, go back to your project's root directory and run the release build command again.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that the JavaScript bundle is not being found when the app is running in release mode. This is a common issue when you're trying to run your React Native app in release mode without having bundled your JavaScript files.

Here are the steps to generate a JavaScript bundle manually:

1. Create a folder in your project directory named `assets` inside `android/app/src/main`.

2. Run the following command in your project directory:

```bash
npx react-native bundle --platform android --dev false --entry-file index.js --bundle-output android/app/src/main/assets/index.android.bundle --assets-dest android/app/src/main/res
```

This command generates the JavaScript bundle for the Android platform in release mode. The `--entry-file` parameter specifies the entry point to your application. If your entry file is different, change `index.js` to your entry file. The `--bundle-output` and `--assets-dest` parameters specify where the bundle and resources will be outputted.

3. After running the command, you should see `index.android.bundle` in the `android/app/src/main/assets` directory.

4. Now you can create your release build:

```bash
npx react-native run-android --variant=release
```

If you're still having issues, make sure that your `android/app/build.gradle` file is set up to bundle the file in release mode:

```groovy
project.ext.react = [
    enableHermes: false,  // clean and rebuild if changing
    bundleInRelease: true
]
```

This will ensure that the JavaScript bundle is included in your APK.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message suggests that the `index.android.bundle` file is not packaged correctly for release. This file is the JavaScript bundle that your React Native app runs. When you're developing, this file is served by the Metro bundler, but for a release build, it needs to be bundled up with the app.

Here are the steps to generate the `index.android.bundle`:

1. Create a new folder in your project's directory named `assets` inside `android/app/src/main`.

2. Run the following command in your project's directory:

```bash
npx react-native bundle --platform android --dev false --entry-file index.js --bundle-output android/app/src/main/assets/index.android.bundle --assets-dest android/app/src/main/res
```

This command will generate the `index.android.bundle` and all necessary assets in the correct directories.

3. Now you can create your release build:

```bash
npx react-native run-android --variant=release
```

If you're still facing issues, make sure that you have the correct permissions to read/write in the `android/app/src/main/assets` directory. Also, ensure that your `index.js` file is the correct entry point for your app. If your entry file is different, replace `index.js` in the command above with your actual entry file.

If the problem persists, it could be related to Proguard. Proguard is a tool that shrinks, optimizes, and obfuscates your code by removing unused code and renaming classes, fields, and methods with semantically obscure names. You can try disabling it by setting `minifyEnabled` and `shrinkResources` to `false` in your `android/app/build.gradle` file:

```gradle
android {
    ...
    buildTypes {
        release {
            minifyEnabled false
            shrinkResources false
            ...
        }
    }
}
```

Remember to set them back to `true` once you've fixed the issue, as they help to reduce the size of your APK.

--------
