
# Post \#58078702 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58078702/)

## error An unexpected error occurred: "https://registry.yarnpkg.com/react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript: Not found"

**Vote**: 15 (318/702) **Views**: 33064 (218/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-91

Created at 2019-09-24 10:52:40

Tags: `typescript` `react-native`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After uninstalling the `react-native-cli`
i run this command to initiate a RN project with typescript template:

```
npx react-native init MyApp --template react-native-template-typescript
```


but i got this error:

> warning jest > jest-cli > jest-config > jest-environment-jsdom > jsdom> left-pad@1.3.0: use String.prototype.padStart()              error An unexpected error occurred:
    "[https://registry.yarnpkg.com/react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript](https://registry.yarnpkg.com/react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript):
    Not found".info  If you think this is a bug, please open .....
    [1/2] Removing module
    react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript...
    error This module isn't specified in a package.json file.
    info Visit [https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/remove](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/remove) for documentation
    about this command.                                              warn
    Failed to clean up template temp files in
    node_modules/react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript.
    This is not a critical error, you can work on your app.
    (node:8548) UnhandledPromiseRejectionWarning: Error: Command failed:
    yarn add react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that the template name is incorrect. The correct command should be:

```
npx react-native init MyApp --template react-native-template-typescript
```

You have repeated the "react-native-template-" part in your command, which is causing the error. The correct template name is "react-native-template-typescript", not "react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript".

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the template name is duplicated. The correct command should be:

```
npx react-native init MyApp --template react-native-template-typescript
```

You don't need to repeat `react-native-template-` in the template name. The `react-native-template-` prefix is assumed by the CLI. So, when you specify `--template react-native-template-typescript`, the CLI is looking for a package named `react-native-template-react-native-template-typescript`, which doesn't exist. That's why you're getting a "Not found" error.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the template you're trying to use is not found. This is because you're repeating the "react-native-template-" part in your command. The correct command should be:

```bash
npx react-native init MyApp --template typescript
```

This command will create a new React Native project named "MyApp" using the TypeScript template. The "react-native-template-" prefix is automatically added by the CLI, so you only need to specify the name of the template after that prefix.

--------
