
# Post \#43309712 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43309712/)

## How to check if a value is not null and not empty string in JS

**Vote**: 118 (43/702) **Views**: 492343 (7/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-131

Created at 2017-04-09 17:26:24

Tags: `javascript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Is there any check if a value is not null and not empty string in Javascript? I'm using the following one:

```
var data; //get its value from db 
if(data != null && data != '') {
   // do something
}
```


But I'm wondering if there is another better solution. Thanks.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, there is a more concise way to check if a value is not null and not an empty string in JavaScript. You can simply use:

```javascript
var data; //get its value from db 
if(data) {
   // do something
}
```

In JavaScript, `null`, `undefined`, `NaN`, `false`, `0`, `""` (empty string), and `document.all` are considered falsy values. So, if `data` is `null` or an empty string, the condition in the `if` statement will be `false` and the code inside the `if` block will not be executed. 

However, please note that this will also exclude `0` and `false`, so if these are valid values for `data` in your case, you might want to stick with your original code.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, there is a more concise way to check if a value is not null and not an empty string in JavaScript. You can simply use:

```javascript
var data; //get its value from db 
if(data) {
   // do something
}
```

In JavaScript, `null`, `undefined`, `NaN`, `false`, `0`, `""` (empty string), and `document.all` are considered falsy values. Therefore, if `data` is `null` or an empty string, the condition in the `if` statement will evaluate to `false`.

However, please note that this will also consider `0` and `false` as falsy, so if `data` could potentially be `0` or `false` and you still want to execute the code inside the `if` statement for those values, you should stick with your original code.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, there is a more concise way to check if a value is not null and not an empty string in JavaScript. You can simply use an if statement with the variable itself like so:

```javascript
var data; //get its value from db 
if(data) {
   // do something
}
```

In JavaScript, `null`, `undefined`, `NaN`, `false`, `0`, `""` (empty string), and `''` (empty string) are all considered "falsy" and will not pass the `if(data)` check. Therefore, this code will only execute if `data` is not null and not an empty string, among other "falsy" values.

However, if you want to specifically check for `null` and empty string (`""`), and allow other "falsy" values like `0` or `false`, your original code is the correct way to do it.

--------
