
# Post \#59540900 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59540900/)

## How to upgrade Vue version

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 44847 (180/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-125

Created at 2019-12-31 07:21:14

Tags: `javascript` `php` `laravel` `vue.js` `webpack`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript` `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was using the Vue version (2.5), I ran that command `npm install -g @vue/cli` after that I check my vue version by using the command `vue --version`and it shows me `@vue/cli 4.1.2`. but in my package.json file the version did not upgrade, it still showing me the older version i.e 2.5.7. 
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/cKW6d.png) 

Any help would be highly appreciable


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The `npm install -g @vue/cli` command installs the latest version of the Vue CLI globally on your system. However, it does not update the version of Vue in your project's `package.json` file.

To update the version of Vue in your project, you can run the following command in your project directory:

```
npm install vue@latest --save
```

This will install the latest version of Vue and update your `package.json` file with the new version number.

Alternatively, you can manually update the version number in your `package.json` file and then run `npm install` to install the updated version of Vue.

Note that updating the version of Vue may require you to update other dependencies in your project as well, so be sure to test your project thoroughly after making any updates.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `npm install -g @vue/cli` command installs the latest version of the Vue CLI globally on your system. However, it does not update the version of Vue.js that you are using in your project.

To update the version of Vue.js in your project, you need to run the following command in your project directory:

```
npm install vue@latest --save
```

This command will install the latest version of Vue.js and update the `package.json` file with the new version number.

After running this command, you can check the version of Vue.js by running the following command:

```
vue --version
```

This should show you the latest version of Vue.js that you have installed in your project.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

When you run `npm install -g @vue/cli`, it installs the latest version of the Vue CLI globally on your system. However, it does not update the version of Vue.js in your project's `package.json` file.

To update the version of Vue.js in your project, you need to run the following command in your project directory:

```
npm install vue@latest --save
```

This will install the latest version of Vue.js and update the version in your `package.json` file.

Alternatively, you can specify the version of Vue.js you want to install by running:

```
npm install vue@2.6.11 --save
```

Replace `2.6.11` with the version you want to install.

After installing the latest version of Vue.js, you can verify the version by running `vue --version` in your project directory.

--------
