
# Post \#71083110 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71083110/)

## Vue Uncaught ReferenceError: process is not defined

**Vote**: 38 (160/702) **Views**: 30560 (231/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-121

Created at 2022-02-11 16:05:20

Tags: `typescript` `vue.js` `webpack`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm working on a `Vue + typescript` project. I want to use `process.env.var_name` to adjust the project is in development mode or production mode, just like
```
const isProduct = process.env.APP_ENV === "prod";
```

; however I got an error below. I never meet this error before, so could any one give me a clue why this would happen so I can try to figure out what happend in the project and then fix it.[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/VEk1H.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are seeing is a TypeScript error indicating that the `process.env` object does not have a property named `APP_ENV`. 

To fix this error, you need to define the `APP_ENV` environment variable in your project's configuration. You can do this by adding a `.env` file to the root of your project and defining the variable there, like so:

```
APP_ENV=prod
```

Make sure to restart your development server after adding the `.env` file so that the changes take effect. 

If you are using a build tool like Webpack or Rollup, you may also need to configure them to load the `.env` file and make the environment variables available to your code.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you received indicates that `process` is not defined. This is likely because `process` is a global object in Node.js, but it is not available in the browser environment where your Vue application is running.

To use environment variables in a Vue application, you can use the `dotenv` package to load environment variables from a `.env` file. Here's how you can do it:

1. Install the `dotenv` package:

```
npm install dotenv --save-dev
```

2. Create a `.env` file in the root of your project and define your environment variables:

```
APP_ENV=prod
```

3. In your Vue application, import `dotenv` and call `config()` to load the environment variables:

```
import dotenv from 'dotenv';
dotenv.config();

const isProduct = process.env.APP_ENV === "prod";
```

Now you should be able to use `process.env` to access your environment variables. Note that you should never commit your `.env` file to source control, as it may contain sensitive information.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you are seeing is indicating that `process` is not defined. This error can occur when you are trying to use `process` in a client-side context, such as in a browser environment, where `process` is not available.

To use `process.env` in a Vue + TypeScript project, you need to make sure that you are using a build tool that supports environment variables, such as webpack or rollup. You also need to make sure that you have defined the environment variables that you want to use.

Here are the steps you can follow to define and use environment variables in a Vue + TypeScript project:

1. Install the `dotenv` package as a development dependency:

```
npm install --save-dev dotenv
```

2. Create a `.env` file in the root of your project and define your environment variables:

```
APP_ENV=prod
```

3. In your `vue.config.js` file, add the following code to load the environment variables:

```
const dotenv = require('dotenv');
dotenv.config();
```

4. In your TypeScript code, you can now use `process.env` to access the environment variables:

```
const isProduct = process.env.APP_ENV === "prod";
```

Note that you need to restart your development server after making changes to the `.env` file.

--------
