
# Post \#65341400 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65341400/)

## How to Connect Heroku Redis TLS Node?

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 5546 (509/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-35

Created at 2020-12-17 13:11:01

Tags: `node.js` `heroku` `heroku-redis`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I dont seem to be able to connect to Heroku Redis using TLS on Node.
These docs arent really much help: [https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/securing-heroku-redis](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/securing-heroku-redis)
Does anyone have a working example? Should I be using REDIS_URL or REDIS_TLS_URL?
Im using node_redis v3


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To connect to Heroku Redis using TLS on Node, you should use the REDIS_TLS_URL environment variable instead of REDIS_URL. Here's an example code snippet using node_redis v3:

```javascript
const redis = require('redis');
const url = require('url');

const redisUrl = url.parse(process.env.REDIS_TLS_URL);

const client = redis.createClient(redisUrl.port, redisUrl.hostname, {
  tls: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});

client.auth(redisUrl.auth.split(":")[1]);

client.on('connect', () => {
  console.log('Connected to Redis');
});

client.on('error', (err) => {
  console.error('Redis error:', err);
});
```

Note that the `rejectUnauthorized` option is set to `false` in the `tls` object. This is because Heroku Redis uses a self-signed certificate, so the certificate cannot be verified by a trusted certificate authority. Setting `rejectUnauthorized` to `false` disables certificate verification and allows the connection to be established.

Also, make sure to replace `console.log` and `console.error` with your own logging functions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To connect to Heroku Redis using TLS on Node, you should use the REDIS_TLS_URL environment variable instead of REDIS_URL. Here's an example code snippet using node_redis v3:

```javascript
const redis = require('redis');
const url = require('url');

const redisUrl = url.parse(process.env.REDIS_TLS_URL);
const client = redis.createClient(redisUrl.port, redisUrl.hostname, {
  tls: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});

client.auth(redisUrl.auth.split(':')[1]);

client.on('connect', () => {
  console.log('Connected to Redis');
});

client.on('error', (err) => {
  console.error('Error connecting to Redis:', err);
});
```

Note that we're passing in the `rejectUnauthorized: false` option to the `tls` object to disable certificate validation. This is necessary because Heroku Redis uses a self-signed certificate. However, you should be aware that this makes your connection less secure, so you should only use this option if you trust the network you're connecting from.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To connect to Heroku Redis using TLS on Node, you should use the REDIS_TLS_URL environment variable instead of REDIS_URL. Here's an example of how to connect to Heroku Redis using node_redis v3:

```
const redis = require('redis');
const url = require('url');

const redisUrl = url.parse(process.env.REDIS_TLS_URL);
const client = redis.createClient(redisUrl.port, redisUrl.hostname, {
  tls: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});

client.auth(redisUrl.auth.split(":")[1]);
```

In this example, we're using the `url` module to parse the REDIS_TLS_URL environment variable and create a Redis client with TLS enabled. We're also setting `rejectUnauthorized` to `false` to disable certificate validation. Finally, we're authenticating the client using the password from the REDIS_TLS_URL.

Note that disabling certificate validation is not recommended in production environments. You should obtain a valid SSL certificate and enable certificate validation in your Redis client.

--------
