
# Post \#49679808 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49679808/)

## Error: EACCES: permission denied, mkdir '/usr/local/lib/node_modules/node-sass/build'

**Vote**: 45 (139/702) **Views**: 129801 (64/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-116

Created at 2018-04-05 19:11:22

Tags: `node.js` `angular` `npm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to run an Angular application. I execute the [ng serve](https://angular.io/cli/serve) command, but it then shows:
> Error: Cannot find module 'node-sass'


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs when the required `node-sass` module is not installed in your project. You can resolve this issue by installing the `node-sass` module using the following command:

```
npm install node-sass
```

After installing the `node-sass` module, try running the `ng serve` command again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error occurs when the required `node-sass` module is not installed in your project. To fix this error, you need to install the `node-sass` module using the following command:

```
npm install node-sass
```

If you are using Angular version 8 or above, you can use the `sass` package instead of `node-sass`. You can install it using the following command:

```
npm install sass
```

After installing the required package, try running the `ng serve` command again and it should work without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error occurs when the required `node-sass` module is not installed in your project. To fix this error, you need to install the `node-sass` module in your project.

You can install it by running the following command in your project directory:

```
npm install node-sass
```

After installing the `node-sass` module, try running the `ng serve` command again and it should work without any errors.

--------
