
# Post \#50508334 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50508334/)

## When upgrading Angular 5 to 6, I get incompatible peer dependency (using ng update @angular/core)

**Vote**: 59 (107/702) **Views**: 102333 (82/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-64

Created at 2018-05-24 11:34:08

Tags: `angular` `npm` `angular5` `angular6`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to update my Angular app from v5 to v6 following [this guide](https://update.angular.io/).

I have ran all these commands successfully:

```
npm install -g @angular/cli
npm install @angular/cli
ng update @angular/cli
```


The problem is that I get an error when running this command:

```
ng update @angular/core
                  Package "@angular/flex-layout" has an incompatible peer dependency to "rxjs" (requires "^5.5.0", would install "6.2.0").
                  Package "@angular/compiler-cli" has an incompatible peer dependency to "typescript" (requires ">=2.7.2 <2.8", would install "2.6.2")
Incompatible peer dependencies found. See above.
```


I am not sure how to handle this & I don't want to try things on my own to avoid breaking the app.

Can someone please advise what to do?

My current dependencies are as follows:

```
{
 ....
  },
  "private": true,
  "dependencies": {
    "@angular/animations": "^5.2.10",
    "@angular/cdk": "^5.2.5",
    "@angular/common": "^5.2.10",
    "@angular/compiler": "^5.2.10",
    "@angular/core": "^5.2.10",
    "@angular/flex-layout": "^5.0.0-beta.14",
    "@angular/forms": "^5.2.10",
    "@angular/http": "^5.2.10",
    "@angular/material": "^5.2.5",
    "@angular/platform-browser": "^5.2.10",
    "@angular/platform-browser-dynamic": "^5.2.10",
    "@angular/router": "^5.2.10",
    "@ngx-translate/core": "^9.1.1",
    "@ngx-translate/http-loader": "^3.0.1",
    "core-js": "^2.5.5",
    "hammerjs": "^2.0.8",
    "primeng": "^5.2.4",
    "rxjs": "^5.5.11",
    "zone.js": "^0.8.26"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@angular-devkit/build-angular": "~0.6.3",
    "@angular/cli": "^6.0.3",
    "@angular/compiler-cli": "^5.2.11",
    "@angular/language-service": "^5.2.10",
    "@types/jasmine": "~2.8.3",
    "@types/jasminewd2": "~2.0.2",
    "@types/node": "^6.0.106",
    "codelyzer": "^4.3.0",
    "jasmine-core": "~2.8.0",
    "jasmine-spec-reporter": "~4.2.1",
    "karma": "^2.0.2",
    "karma-chrome-launcher": "~2.2.0",
    "karma-coverage-istanbul-reporter": "^1.2.1",
    "karma-jasmine": "~1.1.0",
    "karma-jasmine-html-reporter": "^0.2.2",
    "protractor": "^5.3.2",
    "ts-node": "~4.1.0",
    "tslint": "~5.9.1",
    "typescript": "~2.6.2"
  }
}
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that some of the dependencies have incompatible versions. To fix this, you can try the following steps:

1. Update the `rxjs` package to version 6.2.0 by running the command `npm install rxjs@6.2.0 --save`. This should resolve the peer dependency issue with `@angular/flex-layout`.

2. Update the `typescript` package to version 2.7.2 or higher by running the command `npm install typescript@^2.7.2 --save-dev`. This should resolve the peer dependency issue with `@angular/compiler-cli`.

3. After updating the dependencies, run the command `ng update @angular/core` again to update the core package to version 6.

4. Once the update is complete, run `ng serve` to start the app and check if everything is working as expected.

Note: Before making any changes, it's always a good practice to create a backup of your project or use a version control system like Git.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that some of the dependencies have incompatible versions. 

To resolve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Update the `rxjs` package to version 6.2.0 by running the following command:

   ```
   npm install rxjs@6.2.0
   ```

2. Update the `typescript` package to version 2.7.2 or higher by running the following command:

   ```
   npm install typescript@">=2.7.2 <2.8"
   ```

3. After updating the dependencies, run the `ng update @angular/core` command again.

If the above steps do not work, you can try removing the `@angular/flex-layout` package temporarily and then running the update command. Once the update is complete, you can reinstall the `@angular/flex-layout` package with the updated dependencies.

```
npm uninstall @angular/flex-layout
ng update @angular/core
npm install @angular/flex-layout
```

Make sure to test your app thoroughly after the update to ensure that everything is working as expected.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that some of the dependencies in your project have incompatible versions. Specifically, "@angular/flex-layout" requires a version of "rxjs" that is not compatible with the version that would be installed by "@angular/core", and "@angular/compiler-cli" requires a version of "typescript" that is not compatible with the version that would be installed by "@angular/core".

To resolve this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Update "@angular/flex-layout" to a version that is compatible with "@angular/core" v6. You can check the compatibility matrix on the [official website](https://github.com/angular/flex-layout#compatibility) to find the appropriate version. For example, "@angular/flex-layout" v6.0.0-beta.18 is compatible with "@angular/core" v6.

2. Update "@angular/compiler-cli" to a version that is compatible with "@angular/core" v6. You can check the compatibility matrix on the [official website](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#600-2018-05-03) to find the appropriate version. For example, "@angular/compiler-cli" v6.0.0 is compatible with "@angular/core" v6.

3. After updating "@angular/flex-layout" and "@angular/compiler-cli", run the following command to update "@angular/core":

```
ng update @angular/core
```

This should resolve the compatibility issues and update your Angular app to v6.

Note: Before making any changes to your project, it's always a good idea to create a backup or commit your changes to a version control system.

--------
