
# Post \#49679808 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49679808/)

## Error: EACCES: permission denied, mkdir '/usr/local/lib/node_modules/node-sass/build'

**Vote**: 45 (139/702) **Views**: 129801 (64/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-116

Created at 2018-04-05 19:11:22

Tags: `node.js` `angular` `npm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to run an Angular application. I execute the [ng serve](https://angular.io/cli/serve) command, but it then shows:
> Error: Cannot find module 'node-sass'


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing indicates that the 'node-sass' module, which is required by Angular, is not installed in your project. 

You can fix this issue by installing the 'node-sass' module. Here's how you can do it:

1. Open your terminal.
2. Navigate to your project directory using the `cd` command.
3. Once you're in the project directory, run the following command to install 'node-sass':

```bash
npm install node-sass
```

This command will install 'node-sass' and add it to your project dependencies. After the installation is complete, try running `ng serve` again. Your project should now compile and run without any issues.

If you still encounter the same error, it might be due to a version compatibility issue between 'node-sass' and Node.js. In this case, you can try installing a different version of 'node-sass' that is compatible with your Node.js version. You can specify the version of 'node-sass' to install like this:

```bash
npm install node-sass@4.14.1
```

Replace '4.14.1' with the version number that is compatible with your Node.js version.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing indicates that the 'node-sass' module, which is required by Angular, is not installed in your project.

You can fix this issue by installing 'node-sass' using npm (Node Package Manager). Here are the steps:

1. Open your terminal.
2. Navigate to your project directory using the `cd` command. For example, if your project is in a folder named 'my-angular-app' on your desktop, you would use the command `cd Desktop/my-angular-app`.
3. Once you're in your project directory, install 'node-sass' by running the following command: `npm install node-sass`.

After the installation is complete, try running `ng serve` again. The error should be resolved and your Angular application should start as expected.

If you still encounter the error, it might be due to version compatibility issues. In that case, you might need to install a specific version of 'node-sass' that is compatible with your project. You can do this by specifying the version number in the install command, like so: `npm install node-sass@4.14.1`. Replace '4.14.1' with the version number that is compatible with your project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing indicates that the 'node-sass' module is not installed in your project. 'node-sass' is a library that provides binding for Node.js to LibSass, the C version of the popular stylesheet preprocessor, Sass.

You can install 'node-sass' using npm (Node Package Manager) with the following command:

```bash
npm install node-sass
```

This command should be run in the root directory of your Angular project.

If you still encounter issues after installing 'node-sass', it might be a compatibility issue. In that case, you can try installing an older version of 'node-sass' that is compatible with your version of Node.js. For example, to install 'node-sass' version 4.14.1, you would use:

```bash
npm install node-sass@4.14.1
```

You can check the compatibility of 'node-sass' with Node.js [here](https://github.com/sass/node-sass#supported-nodejs-versions-vary-by-release-please-consult-the-releases-page-below-is-a-general-guide-line).

--------
