
# Post \#65641648 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65641648/)

## How to get data from nested objects in the form of array

**Vote**: 5 (499/702) **Views**: 3966 (545/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-0

Created at 2021-01-09 10:37:02

Tags: `javascript` `arrays` `object`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

As you can see, the keys are now the name of the items and the corresponding value is another object consisting of two keys - quantity and price.
```
var itemsToBuy = {
    milk: {
        quantity : 5,
        price: 20
    },
    bread: {
        quantity : 2,
        price: 15
    },
    potato: {
        quantity : 3,
        price: 10
    }
}
```

I tried but I am getting only undefined output.
Want to get data such like :
```
['milk', 'bread', 'potato']

[20, 15, 10]
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To get the list of item names and prices separately, you can use the `Object.keys()` method to get an array of keys (item names) from the `itemsToBuy` object, and then use a `for` loop to iterate over the keys and push the corresponding prices into a separate array. Here's an example code snippet:

```
var itemsToBuy = {
    milk: {
        quantity : 5,
        price: 20
    },
    bread: {
        quantity : 2,
        price: 15
    },
    potato: {
        quantity : 3,
        price: 10
    }
};

var itemNames = Object.keys(itemsToBuy);
var itemPrices = [];

for (var i = 0; i < itemNames.length; i++) {
    var itemName = itemNames[i];
    var itemPrice = itemsToBuy[itemName].price;
    itemPrices.push(itemPrice);
}

console.log(itemNames);   // ['milk', 'bread', 'potato']
console.log(itemPrices);  // [20, 15, 10]
```

This code first gets an array of keys (item names) from the `itemsToBuy` object using `Object.keys()`. It then initializes an empty array `itemPrices` to store the corresponding prices. The `for` loop iterates over the `itemNames` array, gets the corresponding price for each item using `itemsToBuy[itemName].price`, and pushes it into the `itemPrices` array using the `push()` method. Finally, it logs both arrays to the console.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To get the list of item names and prices separately, you can use the `Object.keys()` method to get an array of keys from the `itemsToBuy` object. Then, you can use the `map()` method to create a new array of prices by accessing the `price` property of each item object. Here's an example code snippet:

```
var itemNames = Object.keys(itemsToBuy);
var itemPrices = itemNames.map(function(item) {
  return itemsToBuy[item].price;
});

console.log(itemNames); // ['milk', 'bread', 'potato']
console.log(itemPrices); // [20, 15, 10]
```

This should give you the desired output.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To get the list of item names and prices separately, you can use the `Object.keys()` method to get an array of keys from the `itemsToBuy` object, and then use the `map()` method to create a new array of prices by accessing the `price` property of each item object. Here's an example code snippet:

```
var itemNames = Object.keys(itemsToBuy);
var itemPrices = itemNames.map(function(item) {
  return itemsToBuy[item].price;
});

console.log(itemNames);   // ['milk', 'bread', 'potato']
console.log(itemPrices);  // [20, 15, 10]
```

This code first gets an array of keys from the `itemsToBuy` object using `Object.keys()`, which returns `['milk', 'bread', 'potato']`. Then it uses the `map()` method to create a new array of prices by iterating over each item name in the `itemNames` array and accessing the `price` property of the corresponding item object in the `itemsToBuy` object. The resulting `itemPrices` array is `[20, 15, 10]`.

--------
