
# Post \#63716587 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63716587/)

## In WSL2: Ubuntu 20.04 for Windows 10 nodejs is installed but npm is not working

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 15576 (351/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-40

Created at 2020-09-03 03:56:15

Tags: `node.js` `npm` `windows-10` `windows-subsystem-for-linux` `ubuntu-20.04`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using  in my  operating system. I have installed `nodejs` using the command `sudo apt-get install -y nodejs` when I do `node -v` command I get `v12.18.3`

but when I do `npm -v` command I get this below command

I also do `whereis` command. Hope this will help to find solution.
 
I have tried almost all the stackoverflow solutions and github issues but nothing is worked for me.
Hope any kind soul has the solution to this problem. Thanks in advance.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Based on the information you provided, it seems like `npm` is not installed on your system. 

You can try installing `npm` using the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install -y npm
```

If that doesn't work, you can try installing `npm` using `nvm` (Node Version Manager). Here are the steps to install `nvm` and then use it to install `npm`:

1. Install `nvm` using the following command:

```
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.3/install.sh | bash
```

2. Close and reopen your terminal to start using `nvm`.

3. Install the latest version of Node.js using `nvm`:

```
nvm install node
```

4. Use the following command to install `npm`:

```
npm install -g npm
```

This should install `npm` on your system. You can check the version of `npm` using the `npm -v` command.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Based on the information you provided, it seems like `npm` is not installed on your system. You can try installing it using the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install -y npm
```

Once the installation is complete, you can check the version of `npm` using the command:

```
npm -v
```

If you still face issues, you can try uninstalling and reinstalling `nodejs` and `npm` using the following commands:

```
sudo apt-get remove nodejs npm
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs npm
```

After the installation is complete, you can check the versions of `nodejs` and `npm` using the commands:

```
node -v
npm -v
```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Based on the information you provided, it seems like `npm` is not installed on your system. 

You can try installing `npm` separately using the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install -y npm
```

Once the installation is complete, you can check the version of `npm` using the command:

```
npm -v
```

If you still face issues, you can try uninstalling and reinstalling `nodejs` and `npm` using the following commands:

```
sudo apt-get remove nodejs npm
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs npm
```

After the installation is complete, you can check the versions of `nodejs` and `npm` using the commands:

```
node -v
npm -v
```

I hope this helps!

--------
