
# Post \#58201173 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58201173/)

## How to push to vue-router without adding to history?

**Vote**: 23 (239/702) **Views**: 18785 (312/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-78

Created at 2019-10-02 12:06:07

Tags: `javascript` `vue.js` `vue-router`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have the following sequence happening:

- Main screen- Loading screen- Results screen

On homepage, when someone clicks a button, I send them to the loading screen, thru:

`this.$router.push({path: "/loading"});`

And once their task finishes, they are sent to the results screen via  

`this.$router.push({path: "/results/xxxx"});`

The problem is, usually they want to go from results back to the main screen, but when they click back, they're sent to loading again which sends them back to results, so they're stuck in an infinite loop & unable to go back to main screen.

Any ideas how to fix this? I'd ideally like if there was an option like:

`this.$router.push({path: "/loading", addToHistory: false});`

which would send them to the route without adding it to history.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Vue.js, the Vue Router doesn't provide a built-in way to navigate to a route without adding it to the history stack. However, you can achieve this by using a combination of `router.replace()` and `router.push()`.

`router.replace()` is similar to `router.push()`, the difference being that it doesn't add a new record but replaces the current record in the history stack.

So, you can replace your current navigation to the loading screen with `router.replace()`:

```javascript
this.$router.replace({ path: "/loading" });
```

Then, when the task finishes and you navigate to the results screen, you can use `router.push()`:

```javascript
this.$router.push({ path: "/results/xxxx" });
```

This way, when the user clicks the back button on the results screen, they will be taken back to the main screen, not the loading screen, because the loading screen was not added to the history stack.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Vue Router doesn't have a built-in way to prevent a route from being added to the history. However, you can use a workaround to achieve this.

You can use `replace()` method instead of `push()` method. The `replace()` method doesn't add a new record but replaces the current record in the history stack.

So, instead of:

```javascript
this.$router.push({path: "/loading"});
```

You can use:

```javascript
this.$router.replace({path: "/loading"});
```

This way, when the user clicks the back button on the results page, they will be taken back to the main screen instead of the loading screen.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Vue Router doesn't have a built-in option to not add a route to the history stack. However, you can use a workaround to achieve this. You can replace the current route with the loading route, so it doesn't get added to the history stack. 

Instead of:

`this.$router.push({path: "/loading"});`

You can use:

`this.$router.replace({path: "/loading"});`

The `replace` method navigates to a different URL but keeps the session history clean. This way, when the user clicks the back button on the results page, they will be taken back to the main screen instead of the loading screen.

--------
