
# Post \#61228114 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61228114/)

## Absolute Imports: React and Typescript

**Vote**: 6 (473/702) **Views**: 16085 (341/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-24

Created at 2020-04-15 11:57:00

Tags: `reactjs` `typescript` `webpack` `babeljs`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


## Background



I have a React app bootstrapped using `create-react-app` and typescript. As the application has grown, () I would like to implement absolute imports. I am using VS Code (Visual Studio Code) and with very little configuration, I got TS and VS Code to recognize my absolute imports.

For TS, I took the following steps in my `tsconfig.json`:

- `"baseUrl": "client"`- `include``"include": ["./**/*.ts", "./**/*.tsx", "client"]`

For VS Code, I changed my User Settings: Typescript -> Preferences: Import Module Specifier -> non-relative

That worked great. All of my imports were using absolute imports, no errors. But, when I ran the app, I got an error: `Error: Cannot find module "component"` I expected to see my app like I did before the absolute imports. 


## What I Tried



Figured, the error was a webpack or babel issue. 


1. Created env File Added the following to an env file in the root of the app (same location as my package.json)



```
NODE_PATH=client/
```


That did not work. Same error: `Error: Cannot find module "components"`. Also tried changing NODE_PATH to REACT_APP_NODE_PATH that did not work either.


1. Modify Babel Config Added babel plugin module resolver with yarn add -D babel-plugin-module-resolver. Then modified my babel.config.js to:



```
module.exports = { 
  env {...}, 
  plugins: [
    [
      'module-resolver',
      {
        cwd: 'babelrc',
        extensions: ['.ts', '.tsx', '.js'],
        alias: {
          client: './client',
        },
      },
    ],
  ]
}
```


That returns the same error. (I am restarting the server after every change to my config files)


I used a lot of different articles to try to find clarity. Here are some:

- [here](https://medium.com/@ktruong008/absolute-imports-with-create-react-app-4338fbca7e3d)- [here](https://dev.to/mr_frontend/absolute-imports-in-create-react-app-3ge8)- [here](https://justinnoel.dev/2019/06/18/configuring-react-absolute-imports-for-typescript/)- [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56908357/use-absolute-path-in-react-components)- 

And many others. None of that worked. 


## Project Structure



My project structure is a little "unconventional" or not my typical pattern which could be causing an issue.

```
└── root dir
    ├── assets
    │   └── client
    │       ├── assets
    │       ├── components
    │       ├── hooks
    │       └── ...
    │   └── babel.config.js
    │   └── .babelrc
    │   └── webpack.config.js
    │   └── package.json
    └── server files (no server dir)
```


So `client` is like my `src` in a typical react app. `assets` is the "entry dir" for my server which is in the `root dir`.

Any help would be appreciated.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It seems like you have tried a few different approaches to resolve the issue with absolute imports, but none of them have worked. Here are a few suggestions that you can try:

1. Update your webpack configuration: You can update your webpack configuration to resolve the absolute imports. In your `webpack.config.js` file, add the following code:

```
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      client: path.resolve(__dirname, 'client/'),
    },
  },
};
```

This will resolve the `client` alias to the correct path.

2. Use `tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin`: You can use the `tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin` to resolve the absolute imports. Install the plugin using the following command:

```
yarn add -D tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin
```

Then, update your `webpack.config.js` file with the following code:

```
const TsconfigPathsPlugin = require('tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin');

module.exports = {
  resolve: {
    plugins: [new TsconfigPathsPlugin()],
  },
};
```

This will resolve the absolute imports using the paths defined in your `tsconfig.json` file.

3. Use `babel-plugin-root-import`: You can use the `babel-plugin-root-import` to resolve the absolute imports. Install the plugin using the following command:

```
yarn add -D babel-plugin-root-import
```

Then, update your `.babelrc` file with the following code:

```
{
  "plugins": [
    [
      "babel-plugin-root-import",
      {
        "rootPathSuffix": "client"
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

This will resolve the absolute imports using the `client` directory as the root path.

I hope one of these suggestions helps you resolve the issue with absolute imports. Let me know if you have any questions or need further assistance.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It looks like you have tried a few different solutions to get absolute imports working, but none of them have worked so far. Here are a few more things you can try:

1. Update your `tsconfig.json` file to include the `paths` property:

```
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": "client",
    "paths": {
      "@components/*": ["components/*"],
      "@hooks/*": ["hooks/*"],
      "@assets/*": ["assets/*"]
    }
  },
  "include": ["./**/*.ts", "./**/*.tsx", "client"]
}
```

This will allow you to use import statements like `import { MyComponent } from '@components/MyComponent'`.

2. Update your `webpack.config.js` file to include the `resolve.alias` property:

```
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  // ...
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      '@components': path.resolve(__dirname, 'client/components'),
      '@hooks': path.resolve(__dirname, 'client/hooks'),
      '@assets': path.resolve(__dirname, 'client/assets')
    }
  }
};
```

This will allow you to use import statements like `import { MyComponent } from '@components/MyComponent'`.

3. Make sure that your import statements are using the correct paths. For example, if you have a component located at `client/components/MyComponent.tsx`, you should import it like this:

```
import { MyComponent } from 'components/MyComponent';
```

Note that you don't need to include the `client` directory in the import statement, since you have set the `baseUrl` to `client` in your `tsconfig.json` file.

Hopefully one of these solutions will work for you! Let me know if you have any questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like you have tried a few different approaches to resolve the issue with absolute imports in your React app, but none of them have worked so far. Here are a few suggestions that you can try:

1. Update your webpack configuration: You mentioned that you have a `webpack.config.js` file in your project. You can try updating this file to include the `resolve.alias` configuration. Here's an example:

```
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  // ...
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      client: path.resolve(__dirname, 'assets/client/'),
    },
  },
};
```

This should allow you to use absolute imports like `import MyComponent from 'client/components/MyComponent'`.

2. Use `tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin`: This is a plugin that allows you to use the `baseUrl` and `paths` configuration from your `tsconfig.json` file in your webpack configuration. Here's an example:

```
const TsconfigPathsPlugin = require('tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin');

module.exports = {
  // ...
  resolve: {
    plugins: [new TsconfigPathsPlugin()],
  },
};
```

This should allow you to use absolute imports like `import MyComponent from 'client/components/MyComponent'` without any additional configuration.

3. Move your `client` directory to the root of your project: It's possible that the unconventional project structure is causing issues with resolving your imports. You can try moving the `client` directory to the root of your project and updating your configuration accordingly.

I hope one of these suggestions helps you resolve the issue with absolute imports in your React app. Let me know if you have any questions or if there's anything else I can help with!

--------
