
# Post \#51363855 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51363855/)

## How to configure axios to use SSL certificate?

**Vote**: 101 (60/702) **Views**: 275423 (24/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-76

Created at 2018-07-16 14:12:56

Tags: `node.js` `ssl` `ssl-certificate` `axios`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to make a request with axios to an api endpoint and I'm getting the following error: `Error: unable to verify the first certificate`

It seems the https module, which axios uses, is unable to verify the SSL certificate used on the server.

When visiting the server with my browser, the certificate is valid and I can see/download it. I can also make requests to the api on my browser through https.

I can work around it by turning off verification. This code works.

```
const result = await axios.post(
    `https://${url}/login`,
    body,
    {
      httpsAgent: new https.Agent({
        rejectUnauthorized: false
      })
    }
  )
```


Problem is, this doesn't verify the SSL certificate and therefore opens up security holes.

How can I configure axios to trust the certificate and correctly verify it?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can configure axios to trust the certificate by providing the certificate to the https agent. 

First, you need to download the certificate from the server. You can do this by visiting the server in your browser, clicking on the padlock icon in the address bar, and then clicking on "Certificate". There should be an option to download the certificate. Save it as a .pem file.

Next, you need to read the certificate file in your Node.js application and provide it to the https agent. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');
const https = require('https');
const axios = require('axios');

// Read the certificate file
const cert = fs.readFileSync('path/to/your/certificate.pem');

const agent = new https.Agent({
  ca: cert
});

const result = await axios.post(
  `https://${url}/login`,
  body,
  {
    httpsAgent: agent
  }
);
```

This will tell axios to trust the certificate when making requests to the server. 

Please replace `'path/to/your/certificate.pem'` with the actual path to your certificate file.

Remember to keep your certificate file secure, as anyone with access to it could potentially use it to impersonate the server.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can configure Axios to trust the certificate by providing the certificate to the `https.Agent` instance. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, you need to download the certificate from the server. You can do this by visiting the website in your browser and exporting the certificate. Make sure to export it as a Base-64 encoded X.509 (.CER).

2. Save the certificate file in your project directory.

3. Then, you can read the certificate file in your Node.js application and provide it to the `https.Agent` instance. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');
const https = require('https');
const axios = require('axios');

// Read the certificate file
const cert = fs.readFileSync('./path/to/your/certificate.cer');

const agent = new https.Agent({
  ca: cert
});

const result = await axios.post(
  `https://${url}/login`,
  body,
  {
    httpsAgent: agent
  }
);
```

In this code, `fs.readFileSync` is used to read the certificate file. The content of the file is then provided to the `https.Agent` instance as the `ca` option. This will make Axios trust the certificate.

Please replace `'./path/to/your/certificate.cer'` with the actual path to your certificate file.

Remember to keep your certificate file secure, as anyone with access to it could potentially use it to make trusted requests to your server.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can configure axios to trust the certificate by providing the certificate to the https agent. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, you need to download the certificate from the server. You can do this by visiting the server in your browser, clicking on the lock icon in the address bar, and then clicking on "Certificate". Then, you can download the certificate.

2. Save the certificate in your project directory.

3. Then, you can read the certificate in your code and provide it to the https agent. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');
const https = require('https');
const axios = require('axios');

// Read the certificate
const cert = fs.readFileSync('./path-to-your-certificate.pem');

const agent = new https.Agent({
  ca: cert
});

const result = await axios.post(
  `https://${url}/login`,
  body,
  {
    httpsAgent: agent
  }
);
```

This way, the https module will trust the certificate provided by the server, and you won't get the `unable to verify the first certificate` error.

Please replace `'./path-to-your-certificate.pem'` with the actual path to your certificate file.

Remember that this solution is only applicable if you're communicating with a server that you trust. If you're communicating with a server that you don't trust, you should not add their certificate to your trusted certificates.

--------
