
# Post \#60410285 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60410285/)

## expo version command shows running scripts disabled on this machine

**Vote**: 14 (336/702) **Views**: 34519 (209/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-107

Created at 2020-02-26 09:09:12

Tags: `windows` `powershell` `react-native` `terminal` `windows-10`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to develop a react native project in my Windows 10 machine. I installed node js then expo cli via visual studio code terminal. Then I tried the command `expo --version`, the terminal shows error::

```
expo : File C:\Users\saka\AppData\Roaming\npm\expo.ps1 cannot be loaded because running scripts is disabled on this system. For more 
information, see about_Execution_Policies at https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135170.
At line:1 char:1
+ expo --version
+ ~~~~
    + CategoryInfo          : SecurityError: (:) [], PSSecurityException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : UnauthorizedAccess
```


the given link shows many things, but what shall I do to solve my problem? 
Thank You!!!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error occurs because the PowerShell execution policy is set to Restricted by default on Windows. To solve this problem, you need to change the execution policy to allow running scripts. Here are the steps to do it:

1. Open PowerShell as an administrator.
2. Run the following command to check the current execution policy:

```
Get-ExecutionPolicy
```

3. If the output is Restricted, run the following command to change the execution policy:

```
Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
```

4. When prompted, type Y to confirm the change.

After changing the execution policy, you should be able to run the `expo` command without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that the PowerShell script execution policy on your Windows 10 machine is preventing the execution of the expo command. 

To resolve this issue, you can change the PowerShell execution policy to allow script execution. 

Here are the steps to change the PowerShell execution policy:

1. Open PowerShell as an administrator.

2. Run the following command to check the current execution policy:

   ```
   Get-ExecutionPolicy
   ```

3. If the output is `Restricted`, then the execution policy is preventing script execution. 

4. To change the execution policy to allow script execution, run the following command:

   ```
   Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
   ```

   This command sets the execution policy to allow local scripts to run, but requires remote scripts to be signed by a trusted publisher.

5. When prompted, confirm the change by typing `Y` and pressing Enter.

6. Now, try running the `expo --version` command again. It should work without any errors.

Note: Changing the PowerShell execution policy can have security implications. Make sure you understand the risks before making any changes.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message indicates that the PowerShell execution policy on your Windows 10 machine is preventing the execution of scripts. To resolve this issue, you can change the execution policy to allow script execution. Here are the steps to do that:

1. Open PowerShell as an administrator. You can do this by right-clicking on the PowerShell icon and selecting "Run as administrator".

2. Run the following command to check the current execution policy:

   ```
   Get-ExecutionPolicy
   ```

   This command will return the current execution policy. If the policy is set to "Restricted", then scripts are not allowed to run.

3. To change the execution policy to allow script execution, run the following command:

   ```
   Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned
   ```

   This command will set the execution policy to "RemoteSigned", which allows locally created scripts to run.

4. After changing the execution policy, try running the `expo --version` command again in the Visual Studio Code terminal. It should now work without any errors.

Note: Changing the execution policy can be a security risk, so it's important to understand the implications before making any changes. You can learn more about PowerShell execution policies by running the following command:

```
Get-Help about_Execution_Policies
```

--------
