
# Post \#46415343 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46415343/)

## Downgrade npm to an older version

**Vote**: 311 (5/702) **Views**: 486955 (8/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-122

Created at 2017-09-25 22:54:08

Tags: `node.js` `npm` `installation` `downgrade`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I tried updating `npm` to see if it would solve some dependency problems we were having, and now I want to downgrade to the version the rest of the development team is using. How can I install an older version?
I updated `npm` according to the instructions on the [About npm CLI versions](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm-versions):
> 
## The latest release of npm

The latest release of `npm` is the most recent stable version. When you install Node.js, `npm` is automatically installed. However, `npm` is released more frequently than Node.js, so to install the latest stable version of `npm`, on the command line, run:`npm install npm@latest -g`


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can downgrade `npm` to a specific version using the same command you used to upgrade it, but instead of `@latest`, you specify the version number you want. 

Here's the general format of the command:

```bash
npm install -g npm@version
```

Replace `version` with the version number you want to downgrade to. For example, if you want to downgrade to version 6.14.8, you would run:

```bash
npm install -g npm@6.14.8
```

This will install that specific version of `npm` globally on your system. 

You can confirm the version of `npm` that is currently active by running:

```bash
npm -v
```

This should return the version number you specified in the install command.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can install a specific version of `npm` using the `npm install -g npm@version` command. Replace `version` with the version number you want to install. 

For example, if you want to install `npm` version 6.14.8, you would run:

```bash
npm install -g npm@6.14.8
```

This will install `npm` version 6.14.8 globally on your system. 

You can verify the installed version of `npm` by running:

```bash
npm -v
```

This will print the version of `npm` that is currently active on your system.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can install a specific version of `npm` using the `npm install -g npm@version` command. Replace `version` with the version number you want to install. 

For example, if you want to install `npm` version 6.14.13, you would use the following command:

```bash
npm install -g npm@6.14.13
```

This command will install `npm` version 6.14.13 globally on your system. 

After running the command, you can verify that the correct version has been installed by running `npm -v`. This command will display the version of `npm` that is currently active on your system.

--------
