
# Post \#62371711 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62371711/)

## how to use optional url parameters with NestjS

**Vote**: 18 (275/702) **Views**: 30908 (229/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-37

Created at 2020-06-14 11:12:22

Tags: `node.js` `typescript` `express` `nestjs` `fastify`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to replace our current backend service using Nestjs library, 
however, I want to create a route with 2 optional parameters in the URL something like : 

`/route/:param1/config/:OptionalParam3?/:OptionalParam3?` 

that means the route should catch : 


1. route/aa/config
2. route/aa/config/bb
3. route/aa/config/bb/cc



how can I achieve that, I have tried to use `?` and `()` but it's not working well.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In NestJS, optional parameters are not defined in the route itself, but rather in the function that handles the route. Here's how you can achieve this:

First, define your route like this:

```typescript
@Controller('route')
export class YourController {
  @Get(':param1/config/:param2?/:param3?')
  async getSomething(@Param() params: any) {
    // your code here
  }
}
```

In this example, `param1` is a required parameter, while `param2` and `param3` are optional. The `?` after the parameter name makes it optional.

Then, in your function, you can access these parameters like this:

```typescript
async getSomething(@Param() params: any) {
  const { param1, param2, param3 } = params;
  // your code here
}
```

In this example, `param1` will always be defined, while `param2` and `param3` may be `undefined` if they were not provided in the URL.

This way, your route will match `/route/aa/config`, `/route/aa/config/bb`, and `/route/aa/config/bb/cc`, and the parameters `param1`, `param2`, and `param3` will contain the corresponding parts of the URL.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In NestJS, you can use optional parameters by adding a question mark at the end of the parameter in the route definition. However, optional parameters in the middle of the route are not supported directly. 

To achieve your desired behavior, you can define multiple routes that point to the same handler. Here's an example:

```typescript
@Controller('route')
export class YourController {
  @Get(':param1/config')
  @Get(':param1/config/:param2')
  @Get(':param1/config/:param2/:param3')
  handleRequest(@Param('param1') param1, @Param('param2') param2, @Param('param3') param3) {
    // your code here
  }
}
```

In this example, `param2` and `param3` will be `undefined` if they are not provided in the URL. You can check if they are `undefined` and handle the request accordingly.

Remember to import `Get`, `Controller`, and `Param` from `@nestjs/common`.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In NestJS, optional parameters are not defined in the route itself but are accessed through the `@Query()` decorator in your route handler. 

Here's how you can achieve this:

1. Define your route in your controller:

```typescript
@Controller('route')
export class YourController {
  @Get(':param1/config/:param2?/:param3?')
  async yourMethod(
    @Param('param1') param1: string,
    @Param('param2') param2?: string,
    @Param('param3') param3?: string,
  ) {
    // Your logic here
  }
}
```

In this case, `param2` and `param3` are optional. If they are not provided in the URL, their value will be `undefined`.

2. Use the parameters in your method:

```typescript
@Controller('route')
export class YourController {
  @Get(':param1/config/:param2?/:param3?')
  async yourMethod(
    @Param('param1') param1: string,
    @Param('param2') param2?: string,
    @Param('param3') param3?: string,
  ) {
    console.log(param1, param2, param3);
  }
}
```

In this example, if you access `/route/aa/config/bb/cc`, it will log `aa bb cc`. If you access `/route/aa/config/bb`, it will log `aa bb undefined`. If you access `/route/aa/config`, it will log `aa undefined undefined`.

Please note that the order of the parameters in the URL matters. If you provide `param3` but not `param2`, `param3` will be considered as `param2`.

--------
