
# Post \#59125043 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59125043/)

## VueJS Using Prop Type Validation With NULL and 'undefined' Values?

**Vote**: 32 (187/702) **Views**: 57728 (146/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-89

Created at 2019-12-01 11:25:14

Tags: `javascript` `validation` `vue.js` `types` `vuejs2`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Even though [VueJS 2 official documentation about prop validation](https://v2.vuejs.org/v2/guide/components-props.html#Prop-Validation) is stating (as a code example's comment line):
> // Basic type check (`null` and `undefined` values will pass any type
validation)
[this code reproduction](https://vuep.run/6ecbe302)
```
[Vue warn]: Invalid prop: type check failed for prop "value". Expected String, Number, Boolean, got Null
```

```
<template>
  <div>
    <h1>{{ title }}:</h1>
    <MyInput :value="null" />
  </div>
</template>

<script>
Vue.component('MyInput', Vue.extend({
  props: {
    value: {
      type: [String, Number, Boolean],
      required: true,
    },
  },
  template: `
    <select v-model="value">
      <option value="null">
        null value
      </option>
      <option value="">
        Empty value
      </option>
    </select>`,
}));

export default {
  data: () => ({
    title: 'VueJS Using Prop Type Validation With NULL and `undefined` Values?'
  }),
};
</script>
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, that is correct. The basic type check in VueJS prop validation will allow `null` and `undefined` values to pass any type validation. However, if you specify a specific type or a list of types for a prop, passing a `null` or `undefined` value will result in a type check failure. In your example, the `value` prop is defined as a type of `[String, Number, Boolean]`, so passing a `null` value will result in a type check failure.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, that is correct. The basic type check in VueJS prop validation will allow `null` and `undefined` values to pass any type validation. However, if you have specified a specific type for the prop, such as `String`, `Number`, or `Boolean`, and you pass a `null` value, you will receive a warning that the type check has failed. 

In your example, you have specified that the `value` prop should be of type `String`, `Number`, or `Boolean`, but you are passing a `null` value. Therefore, you are receiving a warning that the type check has failed. If you want to allow `null` values for the `value` prop, you can add `null` to the list of allowed types like this:

```
props: {
  value: {
    type: [String, Number, Boolean, null],
    required: true,
  },
},
```

This will allow `null` values to pass the type check for the `value` prop.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, that is correct. The basic type check in prop validation will allow `null` and `undefined` values to pass any type validation. However, if you have specified a specific type for the prop, such as in your example where you have specified `[String, Number, Boolean]`, then passing `null` or `undefined` will result in a type check failure warning. 

In your example, you can modify the prop type to include `null` as a valid type, like this:

```
props: {
  value: {
    type: [String, Number, Boolean, null],
    required: true,
  },
},
```

This will allow `null` values to pass the type validation.

--------
