
# Post \#57338968 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57338968/)

## Error with react-native run-android after upgrade to react-native version 0.60.4

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 22513 (276/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-120

Created at 2019-08-03 13:55:44

Tags: `java` `android` `react-native` `gradle` `android-gradle-plugin`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `java` `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am upgrading react-native from 0.59.5 to 0.60.4 with my existing application. But facing a problem as below

```
* Where:
Build file '/home/bingl/Projects/blackstar/frontend/android/app/build.gradle'

* What went wrong:
Could not compile build file '/home/bingl/Projects/blackstar/frontend/android/app/build.gradle'.
> startup failed:
  General error during semantic analysis: Unsupported class file major version 57

  java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Unsupported class file major version 57
    at groovyjarjarasm.asm.ClassReader.<init>(ClassReader.java:184)
    at groovyjarjarasm.asm.ClassReader.<init>(ClassReader.java:166)
    at groovyjarjarasm.asm.ClassReader.<init>(ClassReader.java:152)
    at groovyjarjarasm.asm.ClassReader.<init>(ClassReader.java:273)
    at org.codehaus.groovy.ast.decompiled.AsmDecompiler.parseClass(AsmDecompiler.java:81)
    at org.codehaus.groovy.control.ClassNodeResolver.findDecompiled(ClassNodeReso
```


And my build.gradle is 

```
android {
    compileSdkVersion 28
    buildToolsVersion "28.0.3"

    compileOptions {
        sourceCompatibility JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
        targetCompatibility JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
    }

    defaultConfig {
        applicationId "com.frontend"
        minSdkVersion 16
        targetSdkVersion 28
        versionCode 1
        versionName "1.0"
    }
    splits {
        abi {
            reset()
            enable enableSeparateBuildPerCPUArchitecture
            universalApk false  // If true, also generate a universal APK
            include "armeabi-v7a", "x86", "arm64-v8a", "x86_64"
        }
    }
    buildTypes {
        release {
            minifyEnabled enableProguardInReleaseBuilds
            proguardFiles getDefaultProguardFile("proguard-android.txt"), "proguard-rules.pro"
        }
    }
    // applicationVariants are e.g. debug, release
    applicationVariants.all { variant ->
        variant.outputs.each { output ->
            // For each separate APK per architecture, set a unique version code as described here:
            // http://tools.android.com/tech-docs/new-build-system/user-guide/apk-splits
            def versionCodes = ["armeabi-v7a":1, "x86":2, "arm64-v8a": 3, "x86_64": 4]
            def abi = output.getFilter(OutputFile.ABI)
            if (abi != null) {  // null for the universal-debug, universal-release variants
                output.versionCodeOverride =
                        versionCodes.get(abi) * 1048576 + defaultConfig.versionCode
            }
        }
    }
```


I have absolutely no clue what this error is about and could not find much helpful articles. Please help me out.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message "Unsupported class file major version 57" indicates that the Java version used by Gradle is not compatible with the version of Java used to compile some of your code. 

Java class file major version 57 corresponds to Java 13. This means some part of your code or dependencies is compiled with Java 13, while your Gradle is running on a lower Java version.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. Check your Java version: You can check the Java version that Gradle is using by running `./gradlew -version` in your terminal. If it's lower than 13, you might want to upgrade it.

2. Check your dependencies: Make sure none of your dependencies require Java 13. If they do, you might need to downgrade them or upgrade your Java version.

3. Upgrade your Gradle version: Gradle versions lower than 6.0 do not support Java 13. If you're using a lower version of Gradle, consider upgrading it.

4. Set Java version in gradle: In your `build.gradle` file, you have set `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` to `JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8`. Try changing these to `JavaVersion.VERSION_13`.

Remember to always backup your code before making these changes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message "Unsupported class file major version 57" indicates that the version of Java used is not compatible with the version of Gradle. The major version 57 corresponds to Java 13, but your build.gradle file specifies that it should use Java 8.

Here are some steps you can take to resolve this issue:

1. Check your Java version: You can do this by running the command `java -version` in your terminal. If it's not Java 8, you might need to install it or change your JAVA_HOME environment variable to point to a Java 8 JDK.

2. Update your Gradle version: Gradle 6.0 and above supports Java 13. You can update Gradle in your `gradle-wrapper.properties` file. The line with the distributionUrl should look something like this: `distributionUrl=https\://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-6.0-all.zip`

3. Clean and rebuild your project: After making these changes, try to clean and rebuild your project. You can do this by running `./gradlew clean build` in your terminal.

Remember to backup your project before making these changes, just in case something goes wrong.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message "Unsupported class file major version 57" indicates that the Java version used in your project is not compatible with the one used by Gradle. 

The major version 57 corresponds to Java 13, but in your `build.gradle` file, you have specified Java 8 as the source and target compatibility. 

This mismatch could be the cause of the error. 

Here are a few steps you can take to resolve this issue:

1. Check the Java version used by Gradle. You can do this by running the command `./gradlew -version` in your terminal. This will display the Java version used by Gradle.

2. If the Java version used by Gradle is higher than 8 (which is the version you specified in your `build.gradle` file), you can downgrade it. To do this, you can specify the Java version in your `gradle.properties` file. Add this line to the file: `org.gradle.java.home=/path/to/your/jdk8`.

3. Alternatively, you can upgrade the source and target compatibility in your `build.gradle` file to match the Java version used by Gradle. However, this might not be the best solution if your project relies on features specific to Java 8.

4. Make sure that the correct Java version is set in your system's `JAVA_HOME` environment variable. You can check this by running `echo $JAVA_HOME` in your terminal.

5. If you're using an IDE like IntelliJ IDEA or Android Studio, make sure that the correct Java SDK is selected in the project structure settings.

Remember to clean and rebuild your project after making these changes.

--------
