
# Post \#66242718 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66242718/)

## Angular 11 CLI, "ng generate" option: --skip-tests

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 33401 (215/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-106

Created at 2021-02-17 13:18:32

Tags: `angular-cli`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When using the Angular 11 CLI, when I [generate](https://angular.io/cli/generate) a new component I can specify the option `--skip-tests` to avoid generating a `.component.spec.ts` at this stage.
```
ng generate component --name asdf --module app --skip-tests --dry-run
```

When I generate a new module containing a new component (`--route` option) I can't specify the `--skip-tests` option.
```
ng generate module --name asdf --module app --route asdf --routing true --skip-tests --dry-run
```

If I do I get the error:
```
Unknown option: '--skip-tests'
```

Is there another way to skip generating the test in this case or is it just not supported for `generate module`?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `--skip-tests` option is not supported when generating a new module with routing and a component in Angular CLI. This is because the `--skip-tests` option is only applicable to the `ng generate component` command and not the `ng generate module` command.

However, you can achieve your goal by generating the module and component separately. First, generate the module with routing:

```
ng generate module --name asdf --module app --route asdf --routing true --dry-run
```

Then, generate the component within the module and use the `--skip-tests` option:

```
ng generate component asdf/asdf --skip-tests --dry-run
```

This way, you can generate a module with routing and a component without generating the test file for the component.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `--skip-tests` option is not supported when generating a new module with routing and a component in Angular CLI. This is because the `--skip-tests` flag is specific to the `component` schematic and not the `module` schematic.

However, you can achieve your goal by generating the module and component separately. First, generate the module with routing:
```
ng generate module --name asdf --module app --route asdf --routing true --dry-run
```
Then, generate the component within the module with the `--skip-tests` flag:
```
ng generate component asdf/asdf --skip-tests --dry-run
```
This will create a component within the newly created module and skip the creation of the spec file.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `--skip-tests` option is not supported when generating a new module with routing and a component in Angular CLI. The `--skip-tests` option is only available when generating a component, directive, guard, interceptor, pipe, and service.

However, there's a workaround for this. You can generate the module and component separately:

1. Generate the module with routing but without the component:

```bash
ng generate module --name asdf --module app --routing true --dry-run
```

2. Then generate the component within the module with the `--skip-tests` option:

```bash
ng generate component asdf/asdf --skip-tests --dry-run
```

This will create the module with routing and the component without the test file.

--------
