
# Post \#47545940 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47545940/)

## When I run `npm install`, it returns with `ERR! code EINTEGRITY` (npm 5.3.0)

**Vote**: 236 (12/702) **Views**: 295889 (22/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-58

Created at 2017-11-29 05:50:45

Tags: `node.js` `ubuntu` `npm`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am getting this error while running `sudo npm install`. On my server, npm was installed earlier. I've tried to delete the `package-lock.json` file, and ran `npm cache clean --force`, but it didn't work. 

My npm version is 5.3.0.

The error:

```
npm ERR! code EINTEGRITY
npm ERR! sha512-MKiLiV+I1AA596t9w1sQJ8jkiSr5+ZKi0WKrYGUn6d1Fx+Ij4tIj+m2WMQSGczs5jZVxV339chE8iwk6F64wjA== integrity checksum failed when using sha512: wanted sha512-MKiLiV+I1AA596t9w1sQJ8jkiSr5+ZKi0WKrYGUn6d1Fx+Ij4tIj+m2WMQSGczs5jZVxV339chE8iwk6F64wjA== but got sha512-WXI95kpJrxw4Nnx8vVI90PuUhrQjnNgghBl5tn54rUNKZYbxv+4ACxUzPVpJEtWxKmeDwnQrzjc0C2bYmRJVKg==. (65117 bytes)

npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
npm ERR!     /home/ubuntu/.npm/_logs/2017-11-29T05_33_52_182Z-debug.log
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The EINTEGRITY error is a checksum error that occurs when the package's contents change, but its version number does not. This can happen if a package was published, then unpublished and republished with the same version number but different contents.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Update npm**: Your npm version is quite old. Updating npm might solve the issue. You can update npm using the following command:

    ```
    sudo npm install -g npm
    ```

2. **Delete node_modules and package-lock.json**: Delete the `node_modules` directory and `package-lock.json` file in your project directory, then try to install the packages again:

    ```
    rm -rf node_modules
    rm package-lock.json
    sudo npm install
    ```

3. **Clear npm cache**: Clear the npm cache and try to install the packages again:

    ```
    npm cache verify
    sudo npm install
    ```

4. **Use --no-shrinkwrap or --no-package-lock**: If none of the above solutions work, you can try to install the packages with the `--no-shrinkwrap` or `--no-package-lock` option:

    ```
    sudo npm install --no-shrinkwrap
    ```

    or

    ```
    sudo npm install --no-package-lock
    ```

Remember to always backup your project before making any changes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is related to the integrity check that npm performs to ensure the package contents match their expected values. The error is saying that the checksum of the package content does not match the expected value.

Here are a few steps you can try to resolve this issue:

1. **Update npm**: Your npm version is quite old. The latest version of npm has made several improvements, including to the way it handles package integrity. You can update npm using the command `sudo npm install -g npm@latest`.

2. **Clear npm cache**: You've already tried this, but after updating npm, it's worth trying again. Use the command `npm cache clean --force`.

3. **Delete node_modules folder**: Sometimes, the problem can be with a corrupted package in the node_modules folder. Delete this folder using the command `rm -rf node_modules`.

4. **Delete package-lock.json file**: You've already done this, but it's worth doing again after the previous steps. Use the command `rm package-lock.json`.

5. **Reinstall packages**: Now try reinstalling your packages with `npm install`.

If you're still having problems after these steps, it's possible there's a problem with the package you're trying to install, or with the npm registry. You might want to try installing a different version of the package, or contacting the package maintainer for help.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is related to a checksum mismatch. This can occur when the package's contents have changed between the time they were added to the npm registry and the time you tried to install them.

Here are a few steps you can try to resolve this issue:

1. **Update npm**: The version of npm you're using is quite old. It's possible that the issue you're experiencing has been fixed in a newer version. You can update npm by running `sudo npm install -g npm@latest`.

2. **Clear npm cache**: You've already tried this, but it's worth repeating after updating npm. Run `npm cache clean --force`.

3. **Delete `node_modules`**: If the problem persists, try deleting the `node_modules` directory and then running `npm install` again. You can delete the directory with `rm -rf node_modules`.

4. **Check your network connection**: If you're behind a proxy or have a slow/unstable internet connection, it could be causing this issue. Try switching to a different network if possible.

5. **Try using a different package registry**: npm has a few different registries you can use. If the default one isn't working for you, you can try using a different one. For example, you can use the registry provided by Taobao by running `npm config set registry https://registry.npm.taobao.org`.

Remember to run `sudo npm install` again after each step to see if the problem has been resolved.

--------
