
# Post \#66052793 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66052793/)

## Angular typescript convert string to number

**Vote**: 3 (575/702) **Views**: 12950 (384/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-7

Created at 2021-02-04 19:47:05

Tags: `angular` `typescript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to convert a `string number` (an integer represented as a string. ex "12" ) to a `number`

```
export class Person{
  FirstName :  string | undefined ;
  Telephone:  number | undefined ;

}
```


```
console.log("Person" + JSON.stringify(this.person));
```

The JSON appears as
```
{
    "FirstName ": "hhhhh",
    "Telephone": "1478525",
}
```

The Telephone property is a number and I want it to appear as follows (without the ""_ :
```
{
    "FirstName ": "hhhhh",
    "Telephone": 1478525,
}
```

Approaches I took.
```
this.person.Telephone = parseInt(telephone);
```

Above didn't work, it shows the same number enclosed as a `string`. I also tried the following:
```
this.person.Telephone as number
```

both approaches didn't work. Can someone help me solve this ?
Error I get if I don't convert to a number:
> "The JSON value could not be converted to System.Int32. Path:
$.Telephone | LineNumber: 2 | BytePositionInLine: 18."


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `Number()` function to convert a string to a number. Here's how you can modify your code to convert the `Telephone` property to a number:

```
this.person.Telephone = Number(telephone);
```

This should convert the `telephone` string to a number and assign it to the `Telephone` property of the `person` object.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `Number()` function to convert a string to a number. Here's how you can modify your code to convert the `Telephone` property to a number:

```
this.person.Telephone = Number(telephone);
```

This should convert the `telephone` string to a number and assign it to the `Telephone` property of the `person` object.

Alternatively, you can use the `+` operator to convert a string to a number:

```
this.person.Telephone = +telephone;
```

Both of these approaches should work to convert the `Telephone` property to a number.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `Number()` function to convert a string to a number. Here's how you can modify your code to convert the `Telephone` property to a number:

```
this.person.Telephone = Number(telephone);
```

This should convert the `telephone` string to a number and assign it to the `Telephone` property of the `person` object.

--------
