
# Post \#74216515 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74216515/)

## Next.js 13 - Error: The "target" property is no longer supported in next.config.js, Even next.config.js does not have the target property

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 3055 (567/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-126

Created at 2022-10-27 03:35:39

Tags: `next.js`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I upgraded my next.js app to Next.js 13 and pushed the new version to AWS Amplify. The build failed due to this error: The "target" property is no longer supported in next.config.js
`Error: The "target" property is no longer supported in next.config.js. See more info here https://nextjs.org/docs/messages/deprecated-target-config at Object.loadConfig [as default (/codebuild/output/src405507991/src/assistian/node_modules/next/dist/server/config.js:97:19)`
Here is my next.config.js with no target:
```
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
module.exports = {
  webpack(config) {
    config.module.rules.push({
      test: /\.svg$/i,
      issuer: /\.[jt]sx?$/,
      use: ['@svgr/webpack'],
    })
    return config
  }
}
```

Any opinion on what is going wrong?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message indicates that the "target" property is no longer supported in Next.js 13. This property was used to specify the environment in which the app would run, such as "serverless" or "experimental-serverless-trace". 

Since this property is no longer supported, you can remove it from your next.config.js file. 

If you need to specify the environment in which your app will run, you can use the "serverless" property in your package.json file. For example:

```
"scripts": {
  "dev": "next dev",
  "build": "next build",
  "start": "next start",
  "deploy": "next build && aws s3 sync out s3://my-bucket --delete && aws cloudfront create-invalidation --distribution-id my-distribution-id --paths '/*'",
},
"next": {
  "serverless": true
}
```

This will tell Next.js to build your app for a serverless environment.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message indicates that the "target" property is no longer supported in Next.js 13. This property was used to specify the target environment for the application, such as "serverless" or "experimental-serverless-trace". 

Since you are not using the "target" property in your next.config.js file, the error may be caused by an outdated version of the Next.js build process on AWS Amplify. 

To resolve this issue, you can try updating the build process on AWS Amplify to use the latest version of Next.js. You can also try removing any references to the "target" property in your codebase, as it is no longer needed in Next.js 13.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message indicates that the "target" property is no longer supported in Next.js 13. This property was used to specify the environment in which the app was being built, such as "serverless" or "server". 

Since this property is no longer supported, you can remove it from your next.config.js file. 

If you still need to specify the environment, you can use the "serverless" property in your package.json file instead. Here's an example:

```
{
  "name": "my-next-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start",
    "deploy": "next build && amplify publish"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "next": "^13.0.0",
    "react": "^17.0.2",
    "react-dom": "^17.0.2"
  },
  "private": true,
  "type": "module",
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=14.0.0"
  },
  "serverless": true
}
```

In this example, the "serverless" property is set to true, indicating that the app should be built for a serverless environment. 

After making these changes, try building and deploying your app again to see if the issue is resolved.

--------
