
# Post \#53739908 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53739908/)

## Trigger client-side reload in next.js

**Vote**: 27 (213/702) **Views**: 72444 (120/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-36

Created at 2018-12-12 09:30:39

Tags: `node.js` `next.js`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


# Scenario



The index page uses "getInitialProps" to load data. Then we create a dialog which can create a new data. After creating a new data, the current page should be reloaded.


# Problem



We use `Router.replace('/')` to reload the page. But it triggers a server-side rendering.


# Question



What we need is a client-side reload. The "getInitialProps" function should be called in the browser. So, how to do the client-side reload?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `window.location.reload()` method to reload the current document. This method does a client-side reload of the page, which should trigger the `getInitialProps` function in the browser.

Here's how you can use it:

```javascript
window.location.reload();
```

Please note that this method will completely reload the page from the server and will not preserve any state. If you need to preserve state, you might need to use a different approach, such as using a state management library like Redux or MobX, or using the built-in state management features in React.

Also, keep in mind that `window.location.reload()` is a web API and it won't work in a server-side rendering environment. You should ensure that this code is only run on the client side. You can use a simple check like `if (typeof window !== 'undefined')` to ensure that the code is only run in the browser.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `window.location.reload()` function to reload the current document, which is equivalent to the user clicking the refresh button. This will trigger a client-side reload.

Here is an example of how you can use it:

```javascript
window.location.reload();
```

However, please note that this method will completely reload the page from the server, not from the browser cache. This means that all the scripts will be reloaded and re-executed, and all the components will be re-rendered.

If you want to keep the current state of your application and just re-fetch the data, you might want to consider using a state management library like Redux or MobX. You can then dispatch an action to fetch the new data and update the state of your application, which will automatically re-render the components that depend on this data.

Alternatively, if you're using Next.js, you can use the `Router.push()` method with the `shallow: true` option. This will change the URL without triggering a page refresh, and you can then manually call `getInitialProps()` in your component to fetch the new data.

Here is an example:

```javascript
Router.push('/', '/', { shallow: true }).then(() => window.scrollTo(0, 0));
```

Then in your component:

```javascript
componentDidUpdate() {
  this.getInitialProps();
}
```

Please note that this method requires that you handle the data fetching logic in your component, and that `getInitialProps()` is not automatically called when the URL changes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can use the `window.location.reload()` function to reload the current page. This function will reload the current page, and it will trigger a client-side rendering. Here is how you can use it:

```javascript
window.location.reload();
```

However, please note that this function will completely reload the page, including all scripts, stylesheets, images, etc. This might not be the most efficient way to update your page if you only need to update a small part of it.

If you only need to update a part of your page, you might want to consider using a state management library like Redux or MobX, or the built-in state management features of React (like `useState` and `useContext`). These tools allow you to update specific parts of your page without needing to reload the entire page.

--------
