
# Post \#71626538 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71626538/)

## Defining multiple mapped types in typescript?

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 967 (660/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-48

Created at 2022-03-26 08:43:22

Tags: `typescript` `types`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Say I have the following typescript code:
```
type fruit = "apple" | "banana" | "pear"
type color = "red" | "yellow" | "green"
```

And I want to create a type that has a numeric property for each fruit and a boolean property for each color, something like
```
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```

Unfortunately, this errors with the message "A mapped type may not declare properties or methods", yet it compiles fine. What's actually happening here?
I can get around this with something like
```
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
} & {
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```

But I'd like to know what the actual issue is.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is due to a limitation in TypeScript's type system. When you use a mapped type, you're essentially creating a new type by mapping over an existing type. However, TypeScript doesn't allow you to declare properties or methods within a mapped type. This is because mapped types are meant to be used for transforming existing types, not for defining new properties.

In your example, you're trying to define new properties within the mapped type, which is why you're seeing the error message. However, TypeScript is still able to compile the code because it's able to infer the correct type based on the mapped type.

By using an intersection type, as you've done in your workaround, you're able to define new properties without running into the limitation of mapped types. This is because intersection types allow you to combine multiple types into a single type, effectively creating a new type with all the properties of the original types.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you received is a bit misleading. The issue is not with declaring properties or methods in a mapped type, but rather with the fact that you are trying to declare two different types of properties in the same mapped type. 

When you use a mapped type, you are essentially creating a new type by mapping over an existing type. In your example, you are mapping over the `fruit` and `color` types to create a new type with properties for each value in those types. However, you are trying to declare two different types of properties in the same mapped type: a numeric property for fruits and a boolean property for colors. 

This is not allowed in TypeScript because each property in an object must have a consistent type. In other words, you cannot have some properties with a numeric type and others with a boolean type in the same object. 

By using an intersection type (`&`) as you did in your workaround, you are essentially creating two separate objects and then combining them into one. This allows you to declare different types of properties in each object without violating the rule that each property in an object must have a consistent type.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is a bit misleading. The issue is not with declaring properties or methods in a mapped type, but rather with the fact that you're trying to declare two different types of properties in the same mapped type.

When you use a mapped type like `{ [key in fruit]: number }`, you're saying that you want to create a new type where each key in the `fruit` union type maps to a property with the value type `number`. Similarly, `{ [key in color]: boolean }` creates a new type where each key in the `color` union type maps to a property with the value type `boolean`.

However, when you try to combine these two mapped types into a single type with the `&` operator, you're essentially saying that you want a type where each key in both the `fruit` and `color` union types maps to a property with a different value type. This is not allowed in TypeScript, because it would lead to conflicting property types.

To get around this, you can either use the approach you suggested (combining two separate mapped types with `&`), or you can use a union type to represent the two different types of properties:

```
type FruitsAndColors = {
  [key in fruit]: number;
} | {
  [key in color]: boolean
}
```

This creates a type that can have either a numeric property for each fruit or a boolean property for each color, but not both.

--------
