
# Post \#53441292 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53441292/)

## Why `downlevelIteration` is not on by default?

**Vote**: 149 (34/702) **Views**: 86969 (97/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-43

Created at 2018-11-23 05:54:35

Tags: `typescript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When targeting ES5 with usage of spread operator `...` to convert an `Iterator` to an `Array`, it shows the error to use `-downlevelIteration` compiler option. Once it is on, spread operators seem just work flawlessly.

I wonder why is there a need to specify this? Are there any downsides/limitation when it is enabled besides adding more emitted generated code from tslib?

Another example:  (eg. 3):

```
[...Array(3).keys()]  // output: [0, 1, 2]
```


It displays an error in VS Code:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/cSrYT.png)

Error message from `tsc`:

> Type 'IterableIterator' is not an array type or a string type. Use compiler option '--downlevelIteration' to allow iterating of iterators.

[Edit and view the code and error in TypeScript Playground](https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/#src=%5B...Array(3).keys()%5D)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `--downlevelIteration` flag is necessary when targeting ES5 and lower because these versions of ECMAScript do not natively support iteration protocols used by the spread operator `...` and other new ECMAScript features.

In ES6 and later, many built-in types have default iterators, which make them compatible with new language features like the spread operator, for-of loops, and destructuring assignment. When you use these features with an iterable object, the TypeScript compiler generates code that uses these default iterators.

However, in ES5 and earlier, these default iterators do not exist. So, if you're targeting ES5 and you use a feature like the spread operator with an iterable object, the TypeScript compiler doesn't know how to handle it. That's why you get the error message.

When you enable `--downlevelIteration`, the TypeScript compiler generates additional code to implement the ES6 iteration protocol in ES5 and earlier. This allows you to use new ECMAScript features like the spread operator with iterable objects, even when targeting older ECMAScript versions.

As for the downsides, as you've mentioned, enabling `--downlevelIteration` can result in more code being generated, which could increase the size of your scripts. It can also potentially introduce performance overhead due to the additional iteration code. However, in many cases, these downsides are likely to be negligible compared to the benefits of being able to use new language features.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `--downlevelIteration` flag is necessary when targeting ES5 and lower because these versions of ECMAScript do not natively support the iteration protocols introduced in ES6, which include the spread operator `...` for non-array objects.

In ES6 and later, you can use the spread operator with any iterable object. This includes built-in String, Array, array-like objects (e.g., arguments or NodeList), TypedArray, Map, Set, and user-defined iterables.

However, in ES5 and earlier, the spread operator can only be used with actual arrays. Therefore, TypeScript needs to generate additional code to allow the spread operator to work with other iterable objects when targeting these older versions of ECMAScript.

The `--downlevelIteration` flag tells TypeScript to generate this additional code. This code uses the `Symbol.iterator` method to create a simple iterator over the iterable object, which can then be spread into an array.

The downside of using `--downlevelIteration` is that it increases the size of the generated JavaScript code, as you mentioned. It also requires a polyfill for `Symbol.iterator` in environments that do not support it natively, such as Internet Explorer.

In your example, `Array(3).keys()` returns an `Array Iterator` object, not an actual array. Therefore, you need to use `--downlevelIteration` to allow the spread operator to work with it when targeting ES5.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `--downlevelIteration` flag is necessary because TypeScript transpiles to ES5 by default, and ES5 does not support the spread operator `...` for arbitrary iterators. In ES6 and later, the spread operator can be used with any iterable, but in ES5 it can only be used with arrays.

When you enable `--downlevelIteration`, TypeScript will generate additional code to allow the spread operator to work with any iterable, not just arrays. This is why your code works once you enable this flag.

The downside of enabling `--downlevelIteration` is that it can significantly increase the size of the generated JavaScript code, especially if you're using the spread operator in a loop. This is because TypeScript has to include a helper function in the generated code for each use of the spread operator with an iterable. This can potentially slow down your code and increase memory usage.

In your specific example, `[...Array(3).keys()]`, the `Array(3).keys()` expression returns an `Array Iterator`, which is not an array and therefore cannot be spread into an array in ES5. When you enable `--downlevelIteration`, TypeScript generates code that converts the `Array Iterator` into an array before spreading it.

In conclusion, whether or not to use `--downlevelIteration` depends on your specific use case. If you need to support ES5 and you're using the spread operator with iterables frequently, then you might need to enable it. However, be aware of the potential performance implications.

--------
