
# Post \#53739908 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53739908/)

## Trigger client-side reload in next.js

**Vote**: 27 (213/702) **Views**: 72444 (120/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-36

Created at 2018-12-12 09:30:39

Tags: `node.js` `next.js`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------


# Scenario



The index page uses "getInitialProps" to load data. Then we create a dialog which can create a new data. After creating a new data, the current page should be reloaded.


# Problem



We use `Router.replace('/')` to reload the page. But it triggers a server-side rendering.


# Question



What we need is a client-side reload. The "getInitialProps" function should be called in the browser. So, how to do the client-side reload?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To perform a client-side reload, you can use the `window.location.reload()` method. This will reload the current page in the browser and trigger a client-side rendering, which will call the `getInitialProps` function again.

So, instead of using `Router.replace('/')`, you can use `window.location.reload()` to reload the page after creating a new data. This will ensure that the `getInitialProps` function is called in the browser and the data is loaded again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To trigger a client-side reload, you can use the `window.location.reload()` method in JavaScript. This will reload the current page in the browser and call the `getInitialProps` function on the client-side.

Here's an example of how you can use it in your code:

```javascript
import { useState } from 'react';

function IndexPage({ data }) {
  const [showDialog, setShowDialog] = useState(false);

  const handleCreateData = async () => {
    // code to create new data
    // ...

    // reload the page
    window.location.reload();
  };

  return (
    <div>
      {/* code for index page */}
      {/* ... */}

      {/* code for dialog */}
      {showDialog && (
        <div>
          {/* ... */}
          <button onClick={handleCreateData}>Create Data</button>
        </div>
      )}
    </div>
  );
}

IndexPage.getInitialProps = async () => {
  // code to load data
  // ...
};

export default IndexPage;
```

In this example, when the user clicks the "Create Data" button in the dialog, the `handleCreateData` function is called. This function creates the new data and then triggers a client-side reload using `window.location.reload()`. This will reload the page and call the `getInitialProps` function on the client-side, which will load the updated data.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To do a client-side reload, you can use the `window.location.reload()` method. This will reload the current page in the browser and trigger a client-side rendering. 

However, keep in mind that this will reload the entire page, including any scripts and stylesheets, which may cause performance issues. 

Alternatively, you can use a client-side routing library like Next.js's `next/router` to navigate to the current page with a query parameter or state that triggers a re-fetch of the data in `getInitialProps`. This will avoid a full page reload and only update the necessary data.

--------
