
# Post \#56238356 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56238356/)

## Understanding esModuleInterop in tsconfig file

**Vote**: 368 (4/702) **Views**: 272605 (25/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-50

Created at 2019-05-21 12:31:12

Tags: `typescript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was checking out someone `.tsconfig` file and there I spotted `--esModuleInterop`
This is his `.tsconfig` file
```
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "target": "es6",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "lib": ["esnext"],
    "strict": true,
    "sourceMap": true,
    "declaration": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "experimentalDecorators": true,
    "emitDecoratorMetadata": true,
    "declarationDir": "./dist",
    "outDir": "./dist",
    "typeRoots": ["node_modules/@types"]
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*.ts"],
  "exclude": ["node_modues"]
}
```

Here, My primary question is what is   `"esModuleInterop": true,` and
`"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,`. I know they are sort of dependent on the  `"module": "commonjs",` . Can someone try to explain it in the best human language possible?
The official docs for `allowSyntheticDefaultImports` states
> Allow default imports from modules with no default export. This does
not affect code emit, just typechecking.
What does that mean? If there isn't any export default then I think the only use case of the import default would be to initialize something? Like a singleton?
The following question/answer does not make sense as well
[Is there a way to use --esModuleInterop in tsconfig as opposed to it being a flag?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48785451/is-there-a-way-to-use-esmoduleinterop-in-tsconfig-as-opposed-to-it-being-a-fla)
And `--esModuleInterop` definition on the compiler page
> Emit __importStar and __importDefault helpers for runtime babel
ecosystem compatibility and enable --allowSyntheticDefaultImports for
typesystem compatibility.
Also seemed difficult for me to understand/comprehend


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

`"esModuleInterop": true` is a compiler option in TypeScript that allows for interoperability between CommonJS and ES modules. When using CommonJS modules, the `require()` function is used to import modules, while ES modules use the `import` statement. By setting `"esModuleInterop": true`, TypeScript will allow you to use `import` statements to import CommonJS modules. This is useful when working with libraries that use CommonJS modules, but you want to use ES modules in your own code.

`"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true` is another compiler option that allows you to import modules that don't have a default export as if they did have one. This is useful when working with libraries that don't have a default export, but you want to use them as if they did. For example, if you have a module that exports multiple named exports, you can use `import myModule from './myModule'` instead of `import * as myModule from './myModule'`.

The statement "Allow default imports from modules with no default export. This does not affect code emit, just typechecking." means that if you set `"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true`, TypeScript will allow you to use default imports for modules that don't have a default export, but it won't affect the generated JavaScript code. It only affects the type checking performed by TypeScript.

Regarding the question you linked, `--esModuleInterop` is a command line flag that sets the `"esModuleInterop": true` compiler option. You can also set this option in your `tsconfig.json` file by adding `"esModuleInterop": true` to the `"compilerOptions"` object.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

`"esModuleInterop": true` is a TypeScript compiler option that allows the use of `import` statements with CommonJS modules. When this option is set to true, TypeScript will generate code that uses `require()` to import CommonJS modules instead of using ES6 `import` statements. This is necessary because CommonJS modules do not have a default export, and ES6 `import` statements assume that the module has a default export. 

`"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true` is another TypeScript compiler option that allows you to import modules that do not have a default export as if they did have a default export. This is useful when you are importing a module that was written in CommonJS format and does not have a default export. When this option is set to true, TypeScript will generate code that uses `require()` to import the module and then assigns the default export to a variable that you can use in your code.

So, in summary, when you set `"esModuleInterop": true` and `"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true`, you are telling TypeScript to generate code that is compatible with CommonJS modules and allows you to use `import` statements with modules that do not have a default export.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

`esModuleInterop` and `allowSyntheticDefaultImports` are both related to how TypeScript handles imports and exports in modules.

`esModuleInterop` is used to enable interoperability between CommonJS and ES modules. When you use `import` statements in TypeScript, it generates code that uses ES module syntax. However, if you are importing from a CommonJS module, the generated code will not work as expected. `esModuleInterop` allows TypeScript to generate code that works with CommonJS modules by adding additional code to handle the differences between the two module systems.

`allowSyntheticDefaultImports` allows you to import from modules that do not have a default export. Normally, if you try to import from a module that does not have a default export, TypeScript will give you an error. However, if you enable `allowSyntheticDefaultImports`, TypeScript will allow you to import from a module that does not have a default export by generating code that creates a synthetic default export.

In summary, `esModuleInterop` is used to enable interoperability between CommonJS and ES modules, while `allowSyntheticDefaultImports` allows you to import from modules that do not have a default export. Both options are related to how TypeScript handles imports and exports in modules and are dependent on the `"module": "commonjs"` option in the `tsconfig.json` file.

--------
