
# Post \#62792477 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62792477/)

## Can't connect to Elasticsearch with Node.Js on Kubernetes (self signed certificate in certificate chain)

**Vote**: 13 (343/702) **Views**: 8023 (465/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-129

Created at 2020-07-08 10:14:52

Tags: `node.js` `typescript` `elasticsearch` `kubernetes` `microk8s`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a NodeJs application running inside a Kubernetes cluster (I am using [microk8s](https://microk8s.io/)). I've also followed the [official steps](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-quickstart.html) to setup Elasticsearch on Kubernetes.

# Issue


But I am unable to connect to the Elasticsearch cluster. I get this error:
```
ConnectionError: self signed certificate in certificate chain
```

This is a [code snippet](https://github.com/flolu/elasticsearch-k8s-connection/blob/e5c321d7727dc026ec1af14a7dcea44a1874d14b/search/index.ts#L4) of my connection:
```
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  // https://elasticsearch-es-http.default.svc.cluster.local:9200
});
```


# Minimal reproduction


I've created a minimal reproduction of this issue here: [https://github.com/flolu/elasticsearch-k8s-connection](https://github.com/flolu/elasticsearch-k8s-connection). (Setup instructions are in the README)
Basically, everything works fine when running Elasticsearch inside Docker compose, but I can't connect when running inside Kubernetes.
The reason for this is probably because I didn't setup TLS certificates correctly, but I haven't found any information about it. 


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are seeing indicates that the Elasticsearch server is using a self-signed SSL certificate, which is not trusted by the client. To fix this, you need to tell the Elasticsearch client to trust the self-signed certificate.

One way to do this is to set the `ssl.rejectUnauthorized` option to `false` when creating the Elasticsearch client. This will tell the client to accept any SSL certificate, even if it is self-signed or not trusted by the client.

Here's an updated code snippet that sets the `ssl.rejectUnauthorized` option to `false`:

```
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  // https://elasticsearch-es-http.default.svc.cluster.local:9200
  ssl: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});
```

Note that setting `ssl.rejectUnauthorized` to `false` can be a security risk, as it makes the client vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. If possible, you should obtain a valid SSL certificate for your Elasticsearch server and configure the client to trust it.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message you are seeing indicates that the Elasticsearch server is using a self-signed SSL certificate, which is not trusted by the client. To fix this issue, you need to configure your Elasticsearch client to trust the self-signed certificate.

One way to do this is to set the `ssl.rejectUnauthorized` option to `false` in your Elasticsearch client configuration. This will tell the client to accept any SSL certificate, even if it is self-signed or not trusted by the client.

Here's an updated code snippet that sets the `ssl.rejectUnauthorized` option to `false`:

```
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  // https://elasticsearch-es-http.default.svc.cluster.local:9200
  ssl: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});
```

Note that this is not a recommended approach for production environments, as it can leave your application vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. In production, you should use a trusted SSL certificate for your Elasticsearch server.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing indicates that the Elasticsearch server is using a self-signed SSL certificate, which is not trusted by the client. To fix this, you can either disable SSL verification on the client side or use a trusted SSL certificate on the Elasticsearch server.

To disable SSL verification on the client side, you can set the `ssl.rejectUnauthorized` option to `false` in the Elasticsearch client configuration:

```
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  ssl: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});
```

However, this is not recommended for production environments as it can leave your application vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks.

To use a trusted SSL certificate on the Elasticsearch server, you can follow the steps outlined in the [official Elasticsearch documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/configuring-tls.html) to generate and configure a SSL certificate. Once you have a trusted SSL certificate, you can configure the Elasticsearch client to use it:

```
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('/path/to/ca.crt'),
    key: fs.readFileSync('/path/to/client.key'),
    cert: fs.readFileSync('/path/to/client.crt')
  }
});
```

Replace `/path/to/ca.crt`, `/path/to/client.key`, and `/path/to/client.crt` with the paths to your SSL certificate files.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
