
# Post \#65421526 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65421526/)

## Nest.js - Create index in mongoose schema

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 8706 (442/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-44

Created at 2020-12-23 08:58:02

Tags: `node.js` `mongoose` `nestjs`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How do I create an index of property in mongoose schema using Nest.js?
I tried to add index as a property option, But the index hasn't been created:
```
@Schema()
export class Schema extends Document {

  @Prop()
  _id: string;

  @Prop({required: true, index: true})
  type: string;

  @Prop()
  creationDate: string;

  @Prop()
  name: string;
}

export const MySchema = SchemaFactory.createForClass(Schema);
```

I tried this way too:
```
export const MySchema = SchemaFactory.createForClass(Schema).index({ type: 1 });
```

Both doesn't work as expected.
What is the way to do that?
Thanks


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To create an index on a property in a Mongoose schema using Nest.js, you can use the `@Schema` decorator to define the schema and the `@Prop` decorator to define the properties. Then, you can use the `@Index` decorator to specify the index on the property.

Here's an example:

```
import { Schema, Prop, SchemaFactory } from '@nestjs/mongoose';
import { Document } from 'mongoose';

@Schema()
export class MySchema extends Document {
  @Prop({ required: true })
  name: string;

  @Prop({ required: true })
  email: string;

  @Index({ unique: true })
  @Prop({ required: true })
  username: string;
}

export const MySchemaSchema = SchemaFactory.createForClass(MySchema);
```

In this example, the `username` property has an index with the `unique` option set to `true`. You can also set other options for the index, such as `sparse`, `background`, and `expireAfterSeconds`.

After defining the schema, you can use it in your Nest.js application by importing the `MySchemaSchema` and using it in a Mongoose model.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To create an index on a property in a Mongoose schema using Nest.js, you can use the `@Schema` decorator to define the schema and the `@Prop` decorator to define the properties. To create an index on a property, you can pass an object with the `index` property set to `true` as an option to the `@Prop` decorator.

Here's an example of how to create an index on the `type` property in your schema:

```
import { Schema, Prop, SchemaFactory } from '@nestjs/mongoose';
import { Document } from 'mongoose';

@Schema()
export class MySchema extends Document {
  @Prop({ required: true, index: true })
  type: string;

  @Prop()
  creationDate: string;

  @Prop()
  name: string;
}

export const MySchema = SchemaFactory.createForClass(MySchema);
```

In this example, the `type` property is marked as required and has an index created on it. The `creationDate` and `name` properties are not indexed.

You can also create indexes on multiple properties by passing an object with the property names as keys and the index direction (1 for ascending, -1 for descending) as values. For example, to create an index on both the `type` and `creationDate` properties in ascending order, you can modify the `@Prop` decorator for the `type` property like this:

```
@Prop({ required: true, index: { type: 1, creationDate: 1 } })
type: string;
```

This will create a compound index on both properties.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To create an index on a property in a Mongoose schema using Nest.js, you can use the `@Schema()` decorator to define the schema and the `@Prop()` decorator to define the properties. To create an index on a property, you can add the `index: true` option to the `@Prop()` decorator.

Here's an example:

```
import { Schema, Prop, SchemaFactory } from '@nestjs/mongoose';
import { Document } from 'mongoose';

@Schema()
export class MySchema extends Document {
  @Prop({ required: true, index: true })
  type: string;

  @Prop()
  creationDate: string;

  @Prop()
  name: string;
}

export const MySchema = SchemaFactory.createForClass(MySchema);
```

In this example, an index is created on the `type` property by setting the `index` option to `true` in the `@Prop()` decorator. The `SchemaFactory.createForClass()` method is used to create the Mongoose schema from the Nest.js schema class.

Note that you can also create indexes using the `Schema.index()` method, but this should be done outside of the schema class definition. For example:

```
const MySchema = new Schema({
  type: { type: String, required: true },
  creationDate: String,
  name: String,
});

MySchema.index({ type: 1 });
``` 

This creates an index on the `type` property using the `Schema.index()` method.

--------
