
# Post \#51363855 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51363855/)

## How to configure axios to use SSL certificate?

**Vote**: 101 (60/702) **Views**: 275423 (24/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-76

Created at 2018-07-16 14:12:56

Tags: `node.js` `ssl` `ssl-certificate` `axios`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm trying to make a request with axios to an api endpoint and I'm getting the following error: `Error: unable to verify the first certificate`

It seems the https module, which axios uses, is unable to verify the SSL certificate used on the server.

When visiting the server with my browser, the certificate is valid and I can see/download it. I can also make requests to the api on my browser through https.

I can work around it by turning off verification. This code works.

```
const result = await axios.post(
    `https://${url}/login`,
    body,
    {
      httpsAgent: new https.Agent({
        rejectUnauthorized: false
      })
    }
  )
```


Problem is, this doesn't verify the SSL certificate and therefore opens up security holes.

How can I configure axios to trust the certificate and correctly verify it?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message you are seeing indicates that the SSL certificate presented by the server is not trusted by the client. This can happen if the certificate is self-signed, expired, or issued by an untrusted certificate authority.

To correctly verify the SSL certificate, you need to provide axios with the root certificate of the certificate authority that issued the server's SSL certificate. You can obtain this certificate from the certificate authority's website or from the server administrator.

Once you have the root certificate, you can configure axios to use it by creating a custom https agent. Here's an example:

```
const https = require('https');
const axios = require('axios');
const fs = require('fs');

const ca = fs.readFileSync('/path/to/root/certificate.pem');

const agent = new https.Agent({
  ca: ca
});

const result = await axios.post(
  `https://${url}/login`,
  body,
  {
    httpsAgent: agent
  }
);
```

In this example, we read the root certificate from a file and pass it to the https agent. The agent will use this certificate to verify the SSL certificate presented by the server.

Note that if the SSL certificate is issued by a well-known certificate authority, you may not need to provide the root certificate as it may already be included in the list of trusted root certificates on your system.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To configure axios to trust the SSL certificate and correctly verify it, you can provide the root certificate of the server's SSL certificate to the https agent. Here's an example:

```
const fs = require('fs');
const https = require('https');
const axios = require('axios');

const cert = fs.readFileSync('/path/to/server/cert.pem');

const agent = new https.Agent({
  ca: cert
});

const result = await axios.post(
  `https://${url}/login`,
  body,
  {
    httpsAgent: agent
  }
);
```

In this example, we're reading the server's SSL certificate from a file and passing it to the `https.Agent` constructor as the `ca` option. This tells the agent to trust the certificate signed by this root certificate.

Make sure to replace `/path/to/server/cert.pem` with the actual path to the server's SSL certificate file.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To configure axios to trust the SSL certificate and correctly verify it, you can provide the `ca` option to the `https.Agent` constructor. The `ca` option should be set to an array of trusted certificates.

Here's an example:

```
const fs = require('fs');
const https = require('https');
const axios = require('axios');

const trustedCertificates = [
  fs.readFileSync('/path/to/trusted/certificate.pem'),
];

const agent = new https.Agent({
  ca: trustedCertificates,
});

const result = await axios.post(
  `https://${url}/login`,
  body,
  {
    httpsAgent: agent,
  }
);
```

In this example, `trustedCertificates` is an array of trusted certificates. You should replace `/path/to/trusted/certificate.pem` with the path to your trusted certificate.

Then, you create an `https.Agent` instance with the `ca` option set to `trustedCertificates`. Finally, you pass the `httpsAgent` option to the axios request with the `agent` instance you just created.

This should allow axios to verify the SSL certificate using your trusted certificate.

--------
