
# Post \#56134476 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56134476/)

## How to make select dropdown readonly or disabled conditionally in angular?

**Vote**: 10 (387/702) **Views**: 37561 (199/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-80

Created at 2019-05-14 16:02:42

Tags: `angular` `typescript` `angular7`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using Angular7 and I want to make select element readonly or disabled conditionnaly.



```
editable: boolean = true;
```


And the template:

```
<select  #listOfOptions="ngModel" [(ngModel)]="myList" [readonly]="!editable" class="form-control">
    </select>
```


This causes:

> Error: Template parse errors:
      Can't bind to 'readOnly' since it isn't a known property of 'select'.

There is an [issue](https://github.com/ng-select/ng-select/issues/786) about this, no solutions yet!



```
<select [attr.disabled]="!editable">
...
</select>
```


It is always disabled, no matter how I set the editable variable.

Thank you for help.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `[attr.disabled]` binding to conditionally disable the select element based on the value of the `editable` variable. Here's how you can do it:

```
<select [(ngModel)]="myList" [attr.disabled]="!editable ? true : null">
  <option value="option1">Option 1</option>
  <option value="option2">Option 2</option>
  <option value="option3">Option 3</option>
</select>
```

In this example, the `editable` variable is a boolean that determines whether the select element should be disabled or not. If `editable` is `false`, the `[attr.disabled]` binding will set the `disabled` attribute to `true`, effectively disabling the select element. If `editable` is `true`, the `[attr.disabled]` binding will set the `disabled` attribute to `null`, which has no effect and leaves the select element enabled.

Note that we're using the `[attr.disabled]` binding instead of the `disabled` property binding because `disabled` is not a valid property of the `select` element in Angular. Instead, we're setting the `disabled` attribute using the `[attr.disabled]` binding.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `[attr.disabled]` binding to conditionally disable the select element. Here's an example:

```
<select [(ngModel)]="myList" [attr.disabled]="!editable ? true : null">
  <option value="option1">Option 1</option>
  <option value="option2">Option 2</option>
  <option value="option3">Option 3</option>
</select>
```

In this example, the select element will be disabled if the `editable` variable is set to `false`. The `[attr.disabled]` binding sets the `disabled` attribute to `true` or `null` based on the value of `editable`.

Note that we're using the ternary operator (`? :`) to conditionally set the attribute value. If `editable` is `false`, the attribute value will be `true`, which disables the select element. If `editable` is `true`, the attribute value will be `null`, which doesn't disable the select element.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `[attr.disabled]` binding to conditionally disable the select element based on the value of the `editable` variable. Here's an example:

```
<select [(ngModel)]="myList" [attr.disabled]="!editable ? true : null">
  <option value="option1">Option 1</option>
  <option value="option2">Option 2</option>
  <option value="option3">Option 3</option>
</select>
```

In this example, the `editable` variable is used to conditionally set the `disabled` attribute of the select element. If `editable` is `false`, the `disabled` attribute is set to `true`, otherwise it is set to `null` (which removes the attribute). 

Note that we're using the `[attr.disabled]` binding instead of just `disabled` because `disabled` is a property, not an attribute, and cannot be conditionally set using the square bracket syntax.

--------
