
# Post \#58976251 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58976251/)

## Checking text appears inside an element using react testing library

**Vote**: 64 (104/702) **Views**: 100392 (85/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-124

Created at 2019-11-21 13:32:00

Tags: `javascript` `reactjs` `react-testing-library`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm writing some tests for a React app using [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/). I want to check that some text appears, but I need to check it appears in a particular place because I know it already appears somewhere else.
The [Testing Library documentation for queries](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/api-queries#bytext) says that the `getByText` query takes a `container` parameter, which I guessed lets you search within that container. I tried doing this, with the `container` and `text` parameters in the order specified in the docs:
```
const container = getByTestId('my-test-id');
expect(getByText(container, 'some text')).toBeTruthy();
```

and I get an error: `matcher.test is not a function`.
If I put the params the other way round:
```
const container = getByTestId('my-test-id');
expect(getByText('some text', container)).toBeTruthy();
```

I get a different error: `Found multiple elements with the text: some text`
Which means it's not searching inside the specified container.
I think I'm not understanding how `getByText` works. What am I doing wrong?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You are on the right track with using the `container` parameter to limit the search to a specific area of the DOM. However, the order of the parameters is important. The first parameter should be the text you are searching for, and the second parameter should be the container to search within.

So your second attempt was closer to the correct syntax:
```
const container = getByTestId('my-test-id');
expect(getByText('some text', container)).toBeTruthy();
```

However, the error message you received indicates that there are multiple elements with the text "some text" within the specified container. This means that `getByText` is indeed searching within the container, but it is finding more than one match.

To fix this, you can use a more specific query to find the element you are looking for. For example, you could use `getByRole` to find an element with a specific role attribute, or `getByLabelText` to find an element with a specific label.

If you know the element's tag name or class name, you can also use `container.querySelector` to search within the container using standard DOM selectors. For example:
```
const container = getByTestId('my-test-id');
const element = container.querySelector('.my-class');
expect(element).toHaveTextContent('some text');
```

This will search for an element with the class "my-class" within the container, and then check that it contains the text "some text".

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You're on the right track with using the `container` parameter to limit the search to a specific area of the DOM. However, the order of the parameters is important. The first parameter should be the text you're searching for, and the second parameter should be the container you want to search within. 

So your second example is closer to what you want, but it's finding multiple elements with the same text because it's searching the entire document. To limit the search to the container, you can use the `within` method, like this:

```
const container = getByTestId('my-test-id');
expect(within(container).getByText('some text')).toBeTruthy();
```

This should find the element with the text "some text" that is inside the container with the test ID "my-test-id".

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You are on the right track with using the `container` parameter to limit the search to a specific area of the DOM. However, the order of the parameters for `getByText` is actually the opposite of what you tried. The correct order is:

```
expect(getByText('some text', { container })).toBeTruthy();
```

Notice that the `container` parameter is passed as an object with a key of `container`. This is because `getByText` also accepts additional options as a second parameter, and passing the `container` as an object allows you to specify those options if needed.

Also, make sure that the `container` you are passing is actually the correct element that contains the text you are looking for. If you are still getting the error `Found multiple elements with the text: some text`, it means that there are multiple elements in the `container` that match the text you are searching for. In this case, you can use a more specific query to narrow down the search, such as `getByRole` or `getByLabelText`.

--------
