
# Post \#53420082 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53420082/)

## [Vue warn]: Avoid using non-primitive value as key, use string/number value instead

**Vote**: 41 (153/702) **Views**: 79648 (105/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-62

Created at 2018-11-21 20:33:40

Tags: `javascript` `vue.js`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm building a clone of HackerNews and am getting the following error:

```
vue.esm.js?efeb:591 [Vue warn]: Avoid using non-primitive value as key, use string/number value instead.

found in

---> <Single> at src/components/Single.vue
       <App> at src/App.vue
         <Root>
```


The error seems to be coming from Single.vue but I can't work what it is? The template is as follows:

```
<template>
    <div class="container">
        <h2>{{ story.title }}</h2>
        <p>Score: {{ story.score }}</p>
        <p>{{ story.url }}</p>
        <div v-for="comment in comments" :key="comment">
          <div class="comment-wrap">
                <div class="comment-block">
                    <p class="comment-text">{{ comment.text }}</p>
                    <div class="bottom-comment">
                        <div class="comment-author">{{ comment.by }}</div>
                        <div class="comment-date">{{ comment.time }}</div>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</template>
```


If anyone out there can help, that would be great!?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error you're seeing is due to the way you're assigning keys in your `v-for` loop. Vue.js requires that each node in a list have a unique key so it can track each node's identity. This is especially important when you want to reorder or update the list.

In your case, you're using the entire `comment` object as the key:

```html
<div v-for="comment in comments" :key="comment">
```

Vue.js recommends using string or number values as keys. If your `comment` object has a unique id, you should use that as the key:

```html
<div v-for="comment in comments" :key="comment.id">
```

If your `comment` object doesn't have a unique id, and you're sure that the `text` of each comment is unique, you could use that:

```html
<div v-for="comment in comments" :key="comment.text">
```

But be careful with this approach. If two comments have the same text, you'll run into issues. It's always best to use a truly unique value as the key.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is related to the `v-for` directive in your Vue.js code. When you use `v-for` to iterate over items in a list, Vue.js requires you to provide a unique `key` attribute for each item. This `key` helps Vue.js track each node's identity, and it can optimize the rendering process by reusing existing elements.

In your case, you're using the entire `comment` object as the key:

```html
<div v-for="comment in comments" :key="comment">
```

Vue.js recommends using primitive values (string or number) as keys. If `comment` is an object, it's not a primitive value, and that's why you're seeing the warning.

If each comment has a unique id, you can use that as the key:

```html
<div v-for="comment in comments" :key="comment.id">
```

If there's no unique id, and you're sure that comments are never reordered, you can use the index of the comment in the array:

```html
<div v-for="(comment, index) in comments" :key="index">
```

Remember that using indexes as keys can lead to rendering issues if items in your list can be reordered, so it's best to use unique ids whenever possible.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message is telling you that you're using a non-primitive value (in this case, an object) as a key in your `v-for` loop. Vue uses the `key` attribute to track each node's identity, so it can reuse and reorder existing elements for efficiency. When you use an object as a key, Vue can't track the nodes properly, which can lead to unexpected behavior.

In your case, `comment` is likely an object, which is why you're seeing this error. To fix it, you should use a unique primitive value (like a string or a number) from each `comment` as the key. If each comment has a unique id, you could use that:

```html
<div v-for="comment in comments" :key="comment.id">
```

If there's no unique id, you could use the index of the loop:

```html
<div v-for="(comment, index) in comments" :key="index">
```

Just remember that using the index as a key is a last resort, as it can lead to issues if the order of items changes. It's always better to use a unique identifier from your data if possible.

--------
