
# Post \#57459917 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57459917/)

## How to fix this error : " Module not found :can't resolve popper.js "

**Vote**: 81 (77/702) **Views**: 124983 (70/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-60

Created at 2019-08-12 10:58:09

Tags: `jquery` `reactjs` `react-bootstrap` `react-popper`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After import the Bootstrap and Jquery this error is showning when compiling.

```
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
import './index.css';

global.jQuery = require('jquery');
require('bootstrap');
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message is not provided in your question, but I'm assuming you're having issues with importing jQuery and Bootstrap in your React project. 

Here's how you can import Bootstrap and jQuery in your React project:

1. First, install jQuery, Bootstrap and Popper.js (required for Bootstrap) using npm:

```bash
npm install jquery popper.js bootstrap
```

2. Then, import them in your `index.js` file:

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
import './index.css';
import 'jquery/dist/jquery.min.js';
import 'bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap.min.js';
```

This should work, but if you're still having issues, please provide the error message so I can give a more accurate solution.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message is not provided in your question, but I assume you might be getting an error because you're trying to use jQuery and Bootstrap in a React project. React and jQuery don't typically work well together because they both try to manage the DOM, which can lead to unexpected results.

However, if you still want to use Bootstrap and jQuery in your React project, you can do it like this:

First, install jQuery and Bootstrap via npm:

```
npm install jquery
npm install bootstrap
```

Then, in your index.js file:

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
import './index.css';

import $ from 'jquery';
import Popper from 'popper.js';
import 'bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap.bundle.min';

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

This way, you're importing jQuery, Popper.js (which is a dependency of Bootstrap's JavaScript), and Bootstrap's JavaScript files into your project.

Remember, it's generally recommended to use React-based solutions like React-Bootstrap or reactstrap, instead of jQuery and Bootstrap, in a React project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message is not provided in your question, but I assume you might be facing issues with importing jQuery and Bootstrap in your React project.

Firstly, you need to install jQuery and Bootstrap in your project. You can do this by running the following commands in your terminal:

```
npm install jquery
npm install bootstrap
```

Then, you can import them in your project like this:

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import App from './App';
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
import './index.css';
import $ from 'jquery';
import Popper from 'popper.js';
import 'bootstrap/dist/js/bootstrap.bundle.min';

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

In this code, `$` is the standard symbol for jQuery. `Popper.js` is required for the tooltips and popovers in Bootstrap.

If you're still facing issues, please provide the error message so I can assist you better.

--------
