
# Post \#62929428 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62929428/)

## Opposite of nullish coalescing operator

**Vote**: 42 (147/702) **Views**: 7498 (473/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-31

Created at 2020-07-16 07:15:09

Tags: `javascript` `typescript` `nullish-coalescing`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Nullish coalescing operator allows assigning a variable if it's not `null` or `undefined`, or an expression otherwise.
```
a = b ?? other
```

It is an improvement over previously used `||` because `||` will also assign other if `b` is empty string or other falsy, but not nullish value.
However, sometimes, we also use `&&` for value assignment, for example
```
a = b && func(b)
```

where we only want to do `func` on `b` if it's not nullish, otherwise assign the nullish `b`.
Of course, `&&` checks for falsiness, not nullishness. Is there a nullish version of `&&`?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, there is a nullish version of `&&` called the Optional Chaining operator `?.`. It allows you to access nested properties or call functions only if the preceding value is not nullish. Here's an example:

```
const result = obj?.prop?.func();
```

In this example, `result` will be `undefined` if either `obj` or `prop` is nullish. If both `obj` and `prop` are not nullish, then `func()` will be called and its result will be assigned to `result`. This is useful when you want to avoid errors when accessing nested properties or calling functions on nullish values.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, there is a nullish version of `&&` called the Optional chaining operator `?.`. It allows you to access properties and methods of an object only if the object is not nullish. If the object is nullish, the expression will short-circuit and return `undefined`. Here's an example:

```
const obj = {
  prop1: {
    prop2: 'value'
  }
};

const propValue = obj.prop1?.prop2; // 'value'

const nullObj = null;

const nullPropValue = nullObj?.prop1?.prop2; // undefined
```

In the above example, `propValue` will be assigned the value `'value'` because `obj.prop1` is not nullish. However, `nullPropValue` will be assigned `undefined` because `nullObj` is nullish and the expression short-circuits.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, there is a nullish version of `&&` called the Optional Chaining Operator `?.`. It allows you to access nested properties or call functions on an object only if the object is not nullish. Here's an example:

```
const result = obj?.prop?.func();
```

In this example, `result` will be `undefined` if either `obj` or `prop` is nullish. If both `obj` and `prop` exist, then `func()` will be called and `result` will be the return value of `func()`. This is a safer way to access nested properties or call functions on an object without causing errors due to nullish values.

--------
