
# Post \#72564710 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72564710/)

## React Native crash release build - FATAL EXCEPTION: create_react_context

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 5731 (506/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-81

Created at 2022-06-09 18:01:50

Tags: `react-native`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

There is no problem in the development environment, but when I get the release build, the app crashes. (Android) I created a new project (v0.68.2), I didn't make any changes, the room crashed in the same way.
```
npx react-native run-android --variant=release
```

- 
```
FATAL EXCEPTION: create_react_context

java.lang.RuntimeException: Unable to load script. Make sure you're either running Metro (run 'npx react-native start') or that your bundle 'index.android.bundle' is packaged correctly for release.

FATAL EXCEPTION: create_react_context
Process: com.testreleasebuild, PID: 8291
java.lang.RuntimeException: Unable to load script. Make sure you're either running Metro (run 'npx react-native start') or that your bundle 'index.android.bundle' is packaged correctly for release.
    at com.facebook.react.bridge.CatalystInstanceImpl.jniLoadScriptFromAssets(Native Method)
    at com.facebook.react.bridge.CatalystInstanceImpl.loadScriptFromAssets(CatalystInstanceImpl.java:248)
    at com.facebook.react.bridge.JSBundleLoader$1.loadScript(JSBundleLoader.java:29)
    at com.facebook.react.bridge.CatalystInstanceImpl.runJSBundle(CatalystInstanceImpl.java:277)
    at com.facebook.react.ReactInstanceManager.createReactContext(ReactInstanceManager.java:1422)
    at com.facebook.react.ReactInstanceManager.access$1200(ReactInstanceManager.java:138)
    at com.facebook.react.ReactInstanceManager$5.run(ReactInstanceManager.java:1111)
    at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:923)
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

This error message indicates that the release build is unable to load the JavaScript bundle. There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure that you have generated a release build of the JavaScript bundle by running the following command:
```
npx react-native bundle --platform android --dev false --entry-file index.js --bundle-output android/app/src/main/assets/index.android.bundle --assets-dest android/app/src/main/res
```

2. Check that the `index.android.bundle` file is present in the `android/app/src/main/assets/` directory.

3. If you are using ProGuard for code obfuscation, make sure that you have added the necessary rules to your `proguard-rules.pro` file. You can find the required rules in the React Native documentation.

4. If you are using any third-party libraries, make sure that they are compatible with the release build and that you have added the necessary configuration in your `build.gradle` file.

5. Try running the app in debug mode to see if you can reproduce the issue. If the app works fine in debug mode, then the issue is likely related to the release build configuration.

6. If none of the above steps work, try creating a new project and see if the issue persists. If it does, then it could be a problem with your development environment.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

This error message indicates that the app is unable to load the JavaScript bundle file. Here are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure that you have generated a release build of the JavaScript bundle file. You can do this by running the following command:

```
npx react-native bundle --platform android --dev false --entry-file index.js --bundle-output android/app/src/main/assets/index.android.bundle --assets-dest android/app/src/main/res
```

This command will generate a release build of the JavaScript bundle file and place it in the correct location in your Android project.

2. Check that the `index.android.bundle` file is included in your release build. You can do this by navigating to the `android/app/src/main/assets` directory in your Android project and verifying that the file is present.

3. Verify that the `proguard-rules.pro` file in your Android project includes the necessary rules for React Native. You can add the following lines to the file:

```
-keep class com.facebook.react.** { *; }
-dontwarn com.facebook.react.**
```

4. If you are using a custom `Application` class in your Android project, make sure that it is properly configured to initialize React Native. You can do this by adding the following lines to the `onCreate` method of your `Application` class:

```
SoLoader.init(this, false);
ReactNativeFlipper.initializeFlipper(this);
```

5. Finally, make sure that you are running the correct version of React Native in your Android project. You can check this by verifying the version number in your `package.json` file and comparing it to the version number in your Android project's `build.gradle` file. If they do not match, you may need to update your Android project to use the correct version of React Native.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

This error message indicates that the release build is unable to load the JavaScript bundle. There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

1. Make sure that you have generated a release build of the JavaScript bundle. You can do this by running the following command:

```
npx react-native bundle --platform android --dev false --entry-file index.js --bundle-output android/app/src/main/assets/index.android.bundle --assets-dest android/app/src/main/res
```

This command will generate a release build of the JavaScript bundle and place it in the correct location in your Android project.

2. Check that the `index.android.bundle` file is included in your release build. You can do this by opening the APK file and checking the `assets` folder.

3. Make sure that the `android:usesCleartextTraffic` attribute is set to `true` in your `AndroidManifest.xml` file. This is required if your app is making HTTP requests over an unencrypted connection.

4. If you are using ProGuard to obfuscate your code, make sure that you have added the necessary rules to your ProGuard configuration file to prevent the JavaScript code from being obfuscated.

5. If none of the above solutions work, try running the release build on a physical device instead of an emulator. Sometimes emulators can have issues with loading the JavaScript bundle.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
