
# Post \#66654037 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66654037/)

## mongo-connect error with mongo-connect(session)

**Vote**: 17 (290/702) **Views**: 16994 (334/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-42

Created at 2021-03-16 11:11:10

Tags: `node.js` `express` `session` `mongo-collection`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

After searching around about it, I can't find any solution or mistake in my `code` about this error. I've got my `app.js` files inside my node JS application with the `mongo-connect` declaration :
```
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo')(session)
```

And I've got this error :
> TypeError: Class constructor MongoStore cannot be invoked without
'new'
at Object. (/Users/souhailmohamed/project/devops/story website/app.js:11:20)
at Module._compile (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:1063:30)
at Object.Module._extensions..js (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:1092:10)
at Module.load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:928:32)
at Function.Module._load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:769:14)
at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (internal/modules/run_main.js:72:12)
at internal/main/run_main_module.js:17:47
There is my `app.use` code beloww :
```
app.use(session({
    secret: 'story book',
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: false,
    store: new MongoStore({ mongooseConnection: mongoose.connection })
}))
```

I understand pretty well about the
```
const MongoStore = require('connect-mongo')(session)
```

but I didn't understand the error. But it's from a tutorial from youtube by traversy media [LinK](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SBvmnHTQIPY&t=4202s&ab_channel=TraversyMedia)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message is indicating that the `MongoStore` constructor needs to be invoked with the `new` keyword. This means that you need to use `new MongoStore()` instead of just `MongoStore()`.

In your `app.use` code, you are passing an instance of `MongoStore` to the `store` option. To fix the error, you should change the line to:

```
store: new MongoStore({ mongooseConnection: mongoose.connection })
```

This will create a new instance of `MongoStore` with the `mongooseConnection` option set to `mongoose.connection`.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message is indicating that the `MongoStore` class constructor is being called without the `new` keyword. This means that the `MongoStore` object is not being properly instantiated.

To fix this error, make sure that you are using the `new` keyword when creating a new instance of the `MongoStore` class. In your `app.js` file, update the `store` property of the `session` configuration to use the `new` keyword like this:

```
app.use(session({
    secret: 'story book',
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: false,
    store: new MongoStore({ mongooseConnection: mongoose.connection })
}))
```

This should properly instantiate the `MongoStore` object and resolve the error.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The error message is indicating that the `MongoStore` constructor function is being called without the `new` keyword. This means that the `MongoStore` function is being invoked as a regular function instead of as a constructor.

To fix this error, you need to make sure that you are calling the `MongoStore` constructor function with the `new` keyword. In your code, you are already doing this correctly when you pass `mongoose.connection` as an argument to the `MongoStore` constructor:

```
store: new MongoStore({ mongooseConnection: mongoose.connection })
```

However, it's possible that the error is being caused by another part of your code that is calling the `MongoStore` function without the `new` keyword. Make sure that you are not accidentally calling the `MongoStore` function as a regular function anywhere else in your code.

If you are still having trouble, try checking the version of the `connect-mongo` package you are using. It's possible that there is a compatibility issue with the version you are using and the version of Node.js you are running.

--------
