
# Post \#72656551 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72656551/)

## React check if element is visible on viewport

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 4978 (521/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-32

Created at 2022-06-17 08:39:15

Tags: `reactjs`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to identify on scroll if the div is visible on viewport. I am shring the code below:
```
<div id="parent">
     data.map(item => {
             <div id={item.id}>data.title</div>
         }
 <div>
```

Now I want to get the list of divs inside of #parent which are visible on viewport on scroll.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the Intersection Observer API to achieve this. Here's an example code snippet:

```
const parent = document.querySelector('#parent');
const divs = parent.querySelectorAll('div');

const observer = new IntersectionObserver(entries => {
  entries.forEach(entry => {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      console.log(entry.target.id + ' is visible on viewport');
    }
  });
});

divs.forEach(div => {
  observer.observe(div);
});
```

In this code, we first select the parent element and all the child divs. Then, we create an Intersection Observer instance and observe each div. When a div intersects with the viewport, the `isIntersecting` property of the entry object will be true, and we can log a message indicating that the div is visible on the viewport.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the Intersection Observer API to detect when an element is visible on the viewport. Here's an example code snippet that should work for your use case:

```
const parent = document.querySelector('#parent');
const divs = parent.querySelectorAll('div');

const observer = new IntersectionObserver(entries => {
  entries.forEach(entry => {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      console.log(entry.target.id + ' is visible on viewport');
    }
  });
});

divs.forEach(div => {
  observer.observe(div);
});
```

In this code, we first select the `#parent` element and all its child `div` elements. Then, we create a new `IntersectionObserver` instance and pass a callback function that will be called whenever an observed element intersects with the viewport. Inside the callback, we check if the `isIntersecting` property of the `entry` object is true, which means the element is currently visible on the viewport. Finally, we loop through all the `div` elements and call the `observe` method of the observer instance to start observing each element.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can achieve this by using the Intersection Observer API. Here's an example code snippet that should work for your case:

```
const parent = document.querySelector('#parent');
const divs = parent.querySelectorAll('div');

const observer = new IntersectionObserver(entries => {
  entries.forEach(entry => {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      console.log(entry.target.id + ' is visible on viewport');
    }
  });
});

divs.forEach(div => {
  observer.observe(div);
});
```

In this code, we first select the parent element and all the divs inside it. Then we create a new IntersectionObserver object and pass a callback function to it. This function will be called every time an observed element intersects with the viewport.

Inside the callback function, we check if the observed element is intersecting with the viewport by checking the `isIntersecting` property of the `entry` object. If it is, we log a message to the console indicating that the element is visible on the viewport.

Finally, we loop through all the divs and call the `observe` method of the observer object on each of them. This will start observing each div for intersection with the viewport.

--------
