
# Post \#55054337 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55054337/)

## Cypress: run only one test

**Vote**: 231 (13/702) **Views**: 154182 (49/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-66

Created at 2019-03-07 23:14:51

Tags: `javascript` `automated-tests` `cypress` `e2e-testing`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to toggle only running one test, so I don't have to wait for my other tests to see the result of one test.

Currently, I comment out my other tests, but this is really annoying.

Is there a way to toggle only running one test in `Cypress`?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, there is a way to run only one test in Cypress. You can use the `.only` method to specify the test you want to run. 

Here's an example:

```javascript
describe('My Test Suite', () => {
  it.only('My Test Case', () => {
    // Your test code here
  });

  it('Another Test Case', () => {
    // This test will be skipped
  });
});
```

In this example, only the test case 'My Test Case' will be run, and 'Another Test Case' will be skipped. 

Remember to remove the `.only` method after you're done, to ensure all your tests are being run as expected.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, there is a way to run only one test in Cypress. You can use the `.only` method to achieve this. 

If you have a suite of tests and you only want to run one, you can use `it.only` to specify the test you want to run. Here's an example:

```javascript
describe('My Test Suite', () => {
  it('Test Case 1', () => {
    // Test Case 1 code
  });

  it.only('Test Case 2', () => {
    // Test Case 2 code
  });

  it('Test Case 3', () => {
    // Test Case 3 code
  });

  // More tests...
});
```

In this example, only "Test Case 2" will run. 

Similarly, if you want to run a specific suite of tests, you can use `describe.only`:

```javascript
describe.only('My Test Suite 1', () => {
  // Tests...
});

describe('My Test Suite 2', () => {
  // Tests...
});
```

In this example, only the tests in "My Test Suite 1" will run.

Remember to remove `.only` after you're done, or else only that test or suite will run in the future.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, there is a way to run only one test in Cypress. You can use the `.only` method to specify the test you want to run. This method is added to either `it` or `describe` to isolate the test case or test suite respectively.

Here is an example:

```javascript
describe('My Test Suite', () => {
  it.only('My Test Case', () => {
    // Your test code here
  });

  it('Another Test Case', () => {
    // This test will be skipped
  });
});
```

In this example, only 'My Test Case' will be run, and 'Another Test Case' will be skipped.

Remember to remove `.only` after you're done, to ensure all tests are being run as expected.

--------
