
# Post \#59305534 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59305534/)

## Parse JSON with undefined value?

**Vote**: -3 (702/702) **Views**: 17804 (324/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-109

Created at 2019-12-12 13:18:15

Tags: `javascript` `json` `undefined`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

>  [Parsing or fixing JSONs with special 'undefined' values?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59304404/parsing-or-fixing-jsons-with-special-undefined-value/)

I would like to know if it's possible to parse something like`javascript JSON.parse('{ "name": undefined}');`
generated by the API?

The above code errors. 

Is there some way of parsing it? - my actual example is  longer (see [here](https://pastebin.com/98KGhTmf)), I just use the very short example for illustrative purposes

Note: 

- [Here](https://www.seek.com.au/jobs?keywords=R%20"data%20scientist"%20?sortmode=ListedDate)- [Here](https://pastebin.com/bgZihV4U)`Single Column Serp v3``Single undefined Column Serp v3``undefined`


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In JSON, `undefined` is not a valid value. JSON only supports these types: Object, Array, string, number, `true`, `false`, and `null`. 

If you're dealing with a JSON-like string that contains `undefined` values, you'll need to preprocess the string to either remove or replace the `undefined` values before parsing it with `JSON.parse`.

Here's a simple way to replace `undefined` with `null` in JavaScript:

```javascript
let jsonString = '{ "name": undefined}';
jsonString = jsonString.replace(/undefined/g, 'null');
let jsonObject = JSON.parse(jsonString);
```

In this code, we use the `replace` method with a regular expression to replace all instances of `undefined` with `null`. After this, the string can be parsed into a JSON object.

However, be aware that this approach could potentially replace `undefined` in string values as well, not just as standalone values. If this is a concern, you may need a more sophisticated approach to accurately parse the JSON-like string.

Also, it's worth noting that if you're receiving JSON-like strings with `undefined` values from an API, it might be worth reaching out to the API provider. This is not standard behavior and it could be a bug on their end.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In JSON, `undefined` is not a valid value. JSON only allows the following data types: string, number, object, array, boolean, null. 

If you are getting JSON from an API that includes `undefined`, it's not valid JSON. The API should be fixed to not generate `undefined` values. 

If you can't fix the API, you'll have to pre-process the JSON string to replace `undefined` with a valid JSON value, like `null` or a string `"undefined"`. 

Here's an example of how you could do this in JavaScript:

```javascript
let jsonString = '{ "name": undefined}';
jsonString = jsonString.replace(/undefined/g, 'null');
let parsed = JSON.parse(jsonString);
```

In this example, all occurrences of `undefined` are replaced with `null` before parsing the JSON string. 

Please note that this is a workaround and the best solution would be to fix the API to not generate `undefined` values.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `undefined` value is not valid in JSON. JSON only allows the following value types: `string`, `number`, `object`, `array`, `true`, `false`, `null`. 

If you're dealing with JSON data that includes `undefined` values, you'll need to preprocess the JSON string to handle these values before parsing it. 

Here's an example of how you might do this in JavaScript:

```javascript
let jsonString = '{ "name": undefined}';
jsonString = jsonString.replace(/undefined/g, 'null');
let parsed = JSON.parse(jsonString);
```

In this example, all `undefined` values are replaced with `null` before parsing the JSON string. This is just one approach, and you might need to adjust it based on your specific needs.

For your actual JSON data, you can use the same approach. Just replace the `jsonString` with your actual JSON data. 

Please note that this approach assumes that `undefined` values should be replaced with `null`. If you need a different behavior, you'll need to adjust the code accordingly.

--------
