
# Post \#71063619 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71063619/)

## React and Tailwind CSS: dynamically generated classes are not being applied

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 12717 (386/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-73

Created at 2022-02-10 10:39:14

Tags: `reactjs` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm just learning React and Tailwind CSS and had a strange experience with CSS grid using Tailwind classes. I've made the buttons for a calculator, with the last Button spanning two columns:

```
export default function App() {
  return (
    <div className="flex min-h-screen items-center justify-center bg-blue-400">
      <Calculator />
    </div>
  );
}
```


```
import { IoBackspaceOutline } from "react-icons/io5";

export const Calculator = () => {
  return (
    <div className="grid grid-cols-4 grid-rows-5 gap-2">
      <Button>AC</Button>
      <Button>
        <IoBackspaceOutline size={26} />
      </Button>
      <Button>%</Button>
      <Button>รท</Button>
      <Button>7</Button>
      <Button>8</Button>
      <Button>9</Button>
      <Button>x</Button>
      <Button>4</Button>
      <Button>5</Button>
      <Button>6</Button>
      <Button>-</Button>
      <Button>1</Button>
      <Button>2</Button>
      <Button>3</Button>
      <Button>+</Button>
      <Button>0</Button>
      <Button>.</Button>
      <Button colSpan={2}>=</Button>
    </div>
  );
};

const Button = ({ colSpan = 1, rowSpan = 1, children }) => {
  return (
    <div
      className={`col-span-${colSpan} row-span-${rowSpan} bg-white p-3 rounded`}
    >
      <div className="flex items-center justify-center">{children}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

This doesn't work (tested in Chrome):
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/W2M9X.png)
Now here comes the weird part. I replaced the returned JSX from the App component with HTML from a Tailwind tutorial and deleted it again.
```
<div className="bg-blue-400 text-blue-400 min-h-screen flex items-center justify-center">
  <div className="grid grid-cols-3 gap-2">
    <div className="col-span-2 bg-white p-10 rounded">1</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">2</div>
    <div className="row-span-3 bg-white p-10 rounded">3</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">4</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">5</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">6</div>
    <div className="col-span-2 bg-white p-10 rounded">7</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">8</div>
    <div className="bg-white p-10 rounded">9</div>
  </div>
</div>
```

After I Ctrl-Z'd a bunch of times, so I had only the previous code, my button suddenly spans two columns as intended:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/WAkNA.png)
I checked to make sure that there were no changes in the code:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/7oDDw.png)
My friend even cloned [my repo](https://github.com/asgervelling/col-span-bug/), followed the same steps and got the same result.
He suspects that it has something to do with the variable classNames in my Button component with regards to Tailwind's JIT compiler, but none of us can pinpoint the error.
Am I using variable CSS classes wrong?
This has been a WTF moment. What could be the reason for this?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The issue you're experiencing is due to the Just-In-Time (JIT) mode of Tailwind CSS. In JIT mode, Tailwind CSS generates styles on-demand as you use them, which is different from the default mode where all possible styles are generated at build time.

When you use template literals to generate class names dynamically (like `col-span-${colSpan}`), the JIT compiler doesn't recognize these as valid class names during the build process because it can't predict the possible values of `colSpan` and `rowSpan`.

When you pasted the HTML from the Tailwind tutorial, the `col-span-2` class was used in the code, so the JIT compiler recognized it and generated the corresponding styles. That's why the button started spanning two columns after you pasted the HTML and then undid the changes.

To solve this issue, you can:

1. Disable JIT mode in your Tailwind CSS configuration. This will generate all possible styles at build time, but will also increase the size of your CSS file.

2. Explicitly use the `col-span-2` class somewhere in your code so the JIT compiler can recognize it. This can be a comment in your CSS file like this:

```css
/* classes for JIT compiler
col-span-2
*/
```

3. If you're using Tailwind CSS v2.2.0 or later, you can use the `@apply` directive with arbitrary expressions in your CSS file:

```css
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;

@layer components {
  .col-span-2 {
    @apply col-span-2;
  }
}
```

This will ensure that the `col-span-2` class is always generated by the JIT compiler.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The issue you're experiencing is related to how Tailwind's Just-In-Time (JIT) mode works. In JIT mode, Tailwind generates styles on-demand as you reference them in your template. It doesn't generate styles that aren't being used in your code. This is why it's called "Just-In-Time".

In your case, when you're using template literals to generate class names like `col-span-${colSpan}`, Tailwind's JIT compiler can't detect these classes because they are dynamically generated. It only sees the literal string "col-span-${colSpan}", not the actual class name that gets generated at runtime.

When you pasted the HTML from the Tailwind tutorial, it included classes like `col-span-2` and `row-span-3`. The JIT compiler saw these classes and generated the corresponding styles. When you undid the changes, the styles remained in the generated CSS, which is why your button suddenly started spanning two columns as intended.

To solve this issue, you can either:

1. Use PurgeCSS to specify the possible class names in your code. This way, Tailwind's JIT compiler will generate the necessary styles.

2. Avoid using template literals to generate class names. Instead, use conditional rendering to apply different classes based on your component's props.

Here's an example of how you could do the latter:

```jsx
const Button = ({ colSpan = 1, rowSpan = 1, children }) => {
  let colClass = '';
  let rowClass = '';

  switch(colSpan) {
    case 1:
      colClass = 'col-span-1';
      break;
    case 2:
      colClass = 'col-span-2';
      break;
    // Add more cases as needed
  }

  switch(rowSpan) {
    case 1:
      rowClass = 'row-span-1';
      break;
    case 2:
      rowClass = 'row-span-2';
      break;
    // Add more cases as needed
  }

  return (
    <div className={`${colClass} ${rowClass} bg-white p-3 rounded`}>
      <div className="flex items-center justify-center">{children}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

This way, the JIT compiler can see all the class names directly in your code and generate the necessary styles.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The issue you're experiencing is related to Tailwind's Just-In-Time (JIT) mode. In JIT mode, Tailwind generates styles on-demand as you use them, which means it needs to be able to find all of your usage in your templates to generate the right CSS.

When you use template literals to generate class names dynamically like `col-span-${colSpan}`, Tailwind's JIT compiler can't see the possible values that `colSpan` can have, so it doesn't generate the corresponding CSS classes.

When you pasted the HTML from the Tailwind tutorial, it included a `col-span-2` class. This caused Tailwind's JIT compiler to generate the `col-span-2` class, which is why your button started working as expected.

To fix this issue, you can use a switch statement or an object mapping to explicitly use the classes you need. This way, Tailwind's JIT compiler can see them and generate the correct CSS. Here's an example:

```jsx
const Button = ({ colSpan = 1, rowSpan = 1, children }) => {
  const colSpanClasses = {
    1: 'col-span-1',
    2: 'col-span-2',
    // Add more as needed
  };

  const rowSpanClasses = {
    1: 'row-span-1',
    // Add more as needed
  };

  return (
    <div
      className={`${colSpanClasses[colSpan]} ${rowSpanClasses[rowSpan]} bg-white p-3 rounded`}
    >
      <div className="flex items-center justify-center">{children}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

This way, you're explicitly using the classes `col-span-1` and `col-span-2`, so Tailwind's JIT compiler will generate them.

--------
