
# Post \#74216515 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74216515/)

## Next.js 13 - Error: The "target" property is no longer supported in next.config.js, Even next.config.js does not have the target property

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 3055 (567/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-126

Created at 2022-10-27 03:35:39

Tags: `next.js`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I upgraded my next.js app to Next.js 13 and pushed the new version to AWS Amplify. The build failed due to this error: The "target" property is no longer supported in next.config.js
`Error: The "target" property is no longer supported in next.config.js. See more info here https://nextjs.org/docs/messages/deprecated-target-config at Object.loadConfig [as default (/codebuild/output/src405507991/src/assistian/node_modules/next/dist/server/config.js:97:19)`
Here is my next.config.js with no target:
```
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
module.exports = {
  webpack(config) {
    config.module.rules.push({
      test: /\.svg$/i,
      issuer: /\.[jt]sx?$/,
      use: ['@svgr/webpack'],
    })
    return config
  }
}
```

Any opinion on what is going wrong?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is due to a change in Next.js 13. The "target" configuration option has been deprecated and is no longer supported.

However, from the `next.config.js` you've shared, it seems like you're not using the "target" property. This could mean that AWS Amplify is using an old version of your `next.config.js` file or there's a cache issue.

Here are a few steps you can try:

1. **Clear AWS Amplify Cache**: AWS Amplify might be using a cached version of your `next.config.js` file. You can try clearing the cache in AWS Amplify and then re-deploy your application.

2. **Check Your Branches**: Make sure that the branch you're pushing to AWS Amplify is the correct one and it has the updated `next.config.js` file.

3. **Check Your next.config.js Locally**: Double-check your `next.config.js` file in your local environment to make sure it doesn't have the "target" property.

4. **Re-clone Your Repository**: Sometimes, git can hold onto old versions of files. Try deleting your local repository and re-cloning it from the remote repository.

5. **Check Your Build Settings**: In AWS Amplify, check your build settings to make sure it's not using an old version of your `next.config.js` file.

If none of these steps work, there might be an issue with Next.js 13 and AWS Amplify. You might want to consider downgrading to a previous version of Next.js until the issue is resolved.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error message you're seeing is due to a change in Next.js 13. The "target" configuration is no longer supported in Next.js 13 and above. However, from the provided `next.config.js` file, it seems like you're not using the "target" property, so the error might be coming from somewhere else.

AWS Amplify currently has some issues with Next.js 13. As of the time of writing this, AWS Amplify does not fully support Next.js 13. This is likely the cause of your build failure.

You can follow the AWS Amplify's GitHub issues page to keep track of when they will fully support Next.js 13. Here is the link: https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-console/issues

As a workaround, you can downgrade your Next.js version to 12 until AWS Amplify fully supports Next.js 13. To do this, you can run the following command in your project directory:

```bash
npm uninstall next
npm install next@12
```

Remember to test your application locally to make sure everything works as expected before pushing the changes to AWS Amplify.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is due to a breaking change in Next.js 13. The "target" configuration is no longer supported in `next.config.js`.

However, in your provided `next.config.js`, there is no "target" property, which is a bit confusing. 

This could be due to a couple of reasons:

1. AWS Amplify might be using an older version of Next.js to build your application. You can check this in the build settings of AWS Amplify.

2. There might be a cached version of your `next.config.js` file that still includes the "target" property. You can try clearing the cache and rebuilding the application.

3. There might be another `next.config.js` file in your project that still includes the "target" property.

4. If you're using a custom server or a custom build script, it might be setting the "target" property somewhere.

To resolve this issue, you need to ensure that the "target" property is not used anywhere in your project, and that AWS Amplify is using the correct version of Next.js to build your application.

--------
