
# Post \#56238356 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56238356/)

## Understanding esModuleInterop in tsconfig file

**Vote**: 368 (4/702) **Views**: 272605 (25/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-50

Created at 2019-05-21 12:31:12

Tags: `typescript`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I was checking out someone `.tsconfig` file and there I spotted `--esModuleInterop`
This is his `.tsconfig` file
```
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "target": "es6",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "lib": ["esnext"],
    "strict": true,
    "sourceMap": true,
    "declaration": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "experimentalDecorators": true,
    "emitDecoratorMetadata": true,
    "declarationDir": "./dist",
    "outDir": "./dist",
    "typeRoots": ["node_modules/@types"]
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*.ts"],
  "exclude": ["node_modues"]
}
```

Here, My primary question is what is   `"esModuleInterop": true,` and
`"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,`. I know they are sort of dependent on the  `"module": "commonjs",` . Can someone try to explain it in the best human language possible?
The official docs for `allowSyntheticDefaultImports` states
> Allow default imports from modules with no default export. This does
not affect code emit, just typechecking.
What does that mean? If there isn't any export default then I think the only use case of the import default would be to initialize something? Like a singleton?
The following question/answer does not make sense as well
[Is there a way to use --esModuleInterop in tsconfig as opposed to it being a flag?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48785451/is-there-a-way-to-use-esmoduleinterop-in-tsconfig-as-opposed-to-it-being-a-fla)
And `--esModuleInterop` definition on the compiler page
> Emit __importStar and __importDefault helpers for runtime babel
ecosystem compatibility and enable --allowSyntheticDefaultImports for
typesystem compatibility.
Also seemed difficult for me to understand/comprehend


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Let's break down these two options:

1. `"esModuleInterop": true,`

This option changes how TypeScript interoperates with CommonJS and AMD modules to be more compatible with Babel. 

In JavaScript, you can import a CommonJS module like this:

```javascript
const express = require('express');
```

In TypeScript, without `esModuleInterop`, you would import it like this:

```typescript
import * as express from 'express';
```

With `esModuleInterop` set to `true`, you can import it like this:

```typescript
import express from 'express';
```

This is more in line with standard ES6 module syntax and is how Babel does it.

2. `"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,`

This option is related to the above. It allows you to use default imports syntax (`import express from 'express';`) even if the imported module does not have a default export. 

This does not affect the runtime behavior of the compiled JavaScript. It's a type-checking feature. It allows TypeScript to type-check uses of the imported module as if it had a default export.

The reason for this is that many JavaScript modules export a function or an object as `module.exports`, and this is what you want to use most of the time. This option allows TypeScript to pretend that these functions or objects are the default export of the module, so you can use the simpler and more readable default import syntax.

In summary, these two options make TypeScript's module syntax and type-checking more compatible with Babel and with the way many JavaScript modules are written.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `esModuleInterop` and `allowSyntheticDefaultImports` options in the TypeScript configuration file are related to how TypeScript handles module imports and exports. They are indeed dependent on the `module` option, which in your case is set to `commonjs`.

Let's break down these options:

1. `"esModuleInterop": true,` - This option changes how TypeScript interoperates with CommonJS and AMD modules to be more compatible with Babel. When this option is set to true, TypeScript will emit some extra code around the imports in your compiled JavaScript files. This is to ensure that the default imports and exports work as expected when running the code in a Node.js environment, which follows the CommonJS module system.

2. `"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,` - This option is related to type checking of default imports. It allows you to use default imports syntax on modules that do not have a default export. This is useful when you're using a module that doesn't have default exports, but you want to import it as if it does for the sake of cleaner syntax or code organization.

The official documentation for `allowSyntheticDefaultImports` means that this option only affects how TypeScript checks types and does not affect how the code is outputted when it is compiled to JavaScript.

As for the StackOverflow question you linked, the user is asking if there's a way to use `esModuleInterop` in the `tsconfig.json` file instead of as a command-line flag. The answer is yes, as you can see in your own `tsconfig.json` file.

The `esModuleInterop` definition from the compiler page is saying that when this option is enabled, TypeScript will add some extra code to the compiled JavaScript to ensure compatibility with the Babel ecosystem. The `__importStar` and `__importDefault` are helper functions that TypeScript uses to handle imports and exports in the compiled JavaScript code.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `"esModuleInterop": true` and `"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true` options in the TypeScript configuration file are indeed related to how TypeScript handles modules.

Let's break it down:

1. `"esModuleInterop": true`: This option changes how TypeScript interoperates with CommonJS and AMD modules to be more compatible with Babel. It enables a new way of importing CommonJS modules that is more compatible with the ES6 import syntax. Without this option, you might have to use the `import * as express from 'express'` syntax when importing a CommonJS module. With this option enabled, you can use the `import express from 'express'` syntax.

2. `"allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true`: This option is related to type checking and IntelliSense. When this option is enabled, you can use default imports (`import express from 'express'`) even if the module you're importing doesn't have a default export. This doesn't change the actual runtime behavior of your code, it only affects type checking and IntelliSense.

The official documentation for `allowSyntheticDefaultImports` says that it "does not affect code emit, just typechecking" because enabling this option doesn't change how your TypeScript code is compiled to JavaScript. It only changes how TypeScript checks your code for errors and provides IntelliSense suggestions.

As for the StackOverflow question you linked, it's asking whether the `esModuleInterop` option can be specified in the `tsconfig.json` file instead of as a command-line flag. The answer is yes, it can be specified in the `tsconfig.json` file, as you've seen in the example you provided.

The `--esModuleInterop` definition from the compiler page is saying that when this option is enabled, TypeScript will generate some extra code (`__importStar` and `__importDefault` helpers) in the compiled JavaScript to ensure compatibility with the Babel ecosystem at runtime. It also automatically enables the `allowSyntheticDefaultImports` option for compatibility with the TypeScript type system.

--------
