
# Post \#62792477 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/62792477/)

## Can't connect to Elasticsearch with Node.Js on Kubernetes (self signed certificate in certificate chain)

**Vote**: 13 (343/702) **Views**: 8023 (465/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-129

Created at 2020-07-08 10:14:52

Tags: `node.js` `typescript` `elasticsearch` `kubernetes` `microk8s`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have a NodeJs application running inside a Kubernetes cluster (I am using [microk8s](https://microk8s.io/)). I've also followed the [official steps](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-quickstart.html) to setup Elasticsearch on Kubernetes.

# Issue


But I am unable to connect to the Elasticsearch cluster. I get this error:
```
ConnectionError: self signed certificate in certificate chain
```

This is a [code snippet](https://github.com/flolu/elasticsearch-k8s-connection/blob/e5c321d7727dc026ec1af14a7dcea44a1874d14b/search/index.ts#L4) of my connection:
```
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  // https://elasticsearch-es-http.default.svc.cluster.local:9200
});
```


# Minimal reproduction


I've created a minimal reproduction of this issue here: [https://github.com/flolu/elasticsearch-k8s-connection](https://github.com/flolu/elasticsearch-k8s-connection). (Setup instructions are in the README)
Basically, everything works fine when running Elasticsearch inside Docker compose, but I can't connect when running inside Kubernetes.
The reason for this is probably because I didn't setup TLS certificates correctly, but I haven't found any information about it. 


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The error message you're seeing is due to the fact that the Elasticsearch client is trying to connect to the Elasticsearch server over HTTPS, but the server is using a self-signed certificate. This is a common issue when using self-signed certificates, as they are not trusted by default.

To solve this issue, you have two options:

1. **Disable SSL verification**: This is not recommended for production environments as it makes your application vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. However, for development or testing purposes, you can disable SSL verification in your Elasticsearch client. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  ssl: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});
```

2. **Add the self-signed certificate to your Node.js application**: This is the recommended solution for production environments. You need to add the self-signed certificate to your Node.js application so that it trusts the certificate. Here's how you can do it:

First, you need to get the certificate from your Elasticsearch server. You can do this by running the following command:

```bash
kubectl get secret quickstart-es-http-certs-public -o=jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 --decode > ca.crt
```

Then, you need to add the certificate to your Node.js application:

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');
const https = require('https');

const agent = new https.Agent({
  ca: fs.readFileSync('path/to/your/certificate/ca.crt')
});

const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  agent: agent
});
```

Replace `'path/to/your/certificate/ca.crt'` with the path to the certificate file you just created.

Remember, if you're using Docker, you need to make sure the certificate file is available inside your Docker container. You can do this by adding a volume in your Docker Compose file:

```yaml
volumes:
  - ./path/to/your/certificate:/usr/src/app/certs
```

And then use the correct path in your Node.js application:

```javascript
ca: fs.readFileSync('/usr/src/app/certs/ca.crt')
```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The error you're seeing is because the Elasticsearch client in Node.js is trying to connect to Elasticsearch over HTTPS, but it's not trusting the self-signed certificate that Elasticsearch is using.

The Elasticsearch operator for Kubernetes automatically generates a self-signed certificate for the HTTP layer of Elasticsearch, which is what's causing the issue. 

You have a couple of options to fix this:

1. **Disable SSL verification in the Elasticsearch client**: This is the easiest solution, but it's not recommended for production environments because it disables SSL verification and makes your application vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  ssl: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});
```

2. **Use the generated certificate in your Node.js application**: The Elasticsearch operator generates a certificate that you can use in your application to trust the Elasticsearch server. Here's how you can do it:

First, you need to extract the certificate from the Kubernetes secret:

```bash
kubectl get secret <elasticsearch-name>-es-http-certs-public -o=jsonpath='{.data.tls\.crt}' | base64 --decode > tls.crt
```

Then, you can use the certificate in your Node.js application:

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');
const https = require('https');

const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('/path/to/tls.crt'),
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

Remember to replace `<elasticsearch-name>` with the name of your Elasticsearch deployment and `/path/to/tls.crt` with the path to the certificate file.

3. **Use your own certificate**: If you have your own certificate that's trusted by your Node.js application, you can use it in Elasticsearch. The Elasticsearch operator allows you to specify your own certificate in the Elasticsearch custom resource. You can find more information about this in the [Elasticsearch operator documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-tls-certificates.html).

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The error message you're seeing is related to SSL/TLS. It seems like your Elasticsearch cluster is using a self-signed certificate, and your Node.js application doesn't trust this certificate.

Node.js uses a set of trusted "root" certificates, and if the certificate from your Elasticsearch cluster isn't signed by one of these root certificates, you'll get the error you're seeing.

To fix this, you have a couple of options:

1. **Disable SSL/TLS verification in your Node.js application.** This is the easiest solution, but it's also the least secure. It means your application won't verify the identity of your Elasticsearch cluster, which could leave you vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. Here's how you can do it:

```javascript
const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  ssl: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});
```

2. **Add the self-signed certificate to your Node.js application's list of trusted certificates.** This is more secure, but it's also a bit more complicated. You'll need to export the self-signed certificate from your Elasticsearch cluster, and then import it into your Node.js application. Here's a general idea of how you can do it:

```javascript
const https = require('https');
const fs = require('fs');

// Read the certificate file
const cert = fs.readFileSync('/path/to/your/certificate.pem');

const client = new elasticsearch.Client({
  node: process.env.elasticsearch_node,
  ssl: {
    ca: cert
  }
});
```

Remember to replace '/path/to/your/certificate.pem' with the actual path to your certificate file.

Please note that these solutions are for the `elasticsearch` client. If you're using the `@elastic/elasticsearch` client, the options might be slightly different.

--------
