
# Post \#72768067 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72768067/)

## When I open the terminal shows "The specified command("completion") is invalid. For a list of available options, run "ng help"

**Vote**: 26 (219/702) **Views**: 6197 (500/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-0-127

Created at 2022-06-27 06:58:53

Tags: `angular` `terminal` `iterm2`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `javascript` (full parsed tag list: `javascript`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

When I open the terminal did't do anything. It will shows errors as below.
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/lx1jC.png)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Based on the error message, it seems like the issue is with the `zsh` shell. One possible solution is to reinstall `zsh` using the package manager for your operating system. 

For example, if you are using Ubuntu, you can run the following command in the terminal to reinstall `zsh`:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall zsh
```

If you are using a different operating system, you can search for the appropriate command to reinstall `zsh`.

Once `zsh` is reinstalled, you can try opening the terminal again to see if the issue has been resolved.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Based on the error message, it seems like the issue is with the `zsh` shell. It looks like the shell is unable to find the `zsh` executable file.

To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Check if `zsh` is installed on your system by running the command `which zsh`. If it is not installed, you can install it using your package manager.

2. If `zsh` is already installed, you can try reinstalling it by running the command `sudo apt-get install --reinstall zsh`.

3. If reinstalling `zsh` does not work, you can try resetting your default shell to `bash` by running the command `chsh -s /bin/bash`.

4. If none of the above steps work, you can try resetting your terminal preferences to default by deleting the `~/.zshrc` file and restarting your terminal.

Hopefully, one of these steps will help you resolve the issue with your terminal.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It looks like there is an issue with your shell configuration file. The error message suggests that there is a problem with the `export` command in your `.bashrc` file.

To fix this issue, you can try the following steps:

1. Open your terminal and navigate to your home directory by typing `cd ~`.

2. Edit your `.bashrc` file by typing `nano .bashrc`.

3. Look for the line that contains the `export` command that is causing the error.

4. Check if the syntax of the `export` command is correct. Make sure that there are no typos or missing characters.

5. Save the changes to the file by pressing `Ctrl + X`, then `Y`, and finally `Enter`.

6. Reload your shell configuration by typing `source .bashrc`.

7. Check if the error message has disappeared by typing a command in the terminal.

If the error message persists, you may need to seek further assistance from a technical expert.

--------
