
# Post \#68723861 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68723861/)

## How to change menu item spacing in Firefox Proton

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 2412 (589/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-143

Created at 2021-08-10 08:58:47

Tags: `css` `firefox`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Firefox Proton increased the menu item spacing to levels that displease me. I heard this kind of problem can often be solved by modifying CSSes internal to Firefox. Which CSS should I change, and how, to reduce the spacing between menu items?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can modify the userChrome.css file to customize the appearance of Firefox. Here's how you can do it:

1. Open Firefox and type `about:support` in the address bar and press Enter.
2. In the 'Application Basics' section, click on 'Open Directory' next to 'Profile Directory'.
3. In the opened directory, create a new folder and name it 'chrome'.
4. Inside the 'chrome' folder, create a new file named 'userChrome.css'. (Make sure the file extension is .css)
5. Open the 'userChrome.css' file with a text editor and paste the following code:

```css
/* Reduce Menu Spacing in Firefox Proton */
:root {
  --proton-density-compact: 4px !important;
  --proton-density-normal: 4px !important;
  --proton-density-touch: 4px !important;
  --proton-menu-horizontal-padding: 4px !important;
  --proton-menu-vertical-padding: 4px !important;
}
```

6. Save the file and close it.
7. Now, you need to enable the usage of this file in Firefox. Type `about:config` in the Firefox address bar and press Enter.
8. Click on 'Accept the Risk and Continue'.
9. In the search bar, type `toolkit.legacyUserProfileCustomizations.stylesheets` and set its value to true by clicking on the arrow button.
10. Restart Firefox to see the changes.

The values `4px` in the CSS code above are the spacing values. You can adjust them according to your preference. The smaller the value, the less the spacing.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can modify the userChrome.css file to customize the appearance of Firefox's user interface, including the spacing between menu items. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, you need to enable the ability to use this file in Firefox. Type `about:config` in the address bar and press Enter. Click "Accept the Risk and Continue". In the search bar, type `toolkit.legacyUserProfileCustomizations.stylesheets` and set its value to `true` by clicking on the arrow button.

2. Now, you need to locate your Firefox profile folder. Type `about:support` in the address bar and press Enter. Under the "Application Basics" section, find "Profile Directory" and click on "Open Directory".

3. In the profile directory, create a new folder named `chrome` if it doesn't already exist.

4. Inside the `chrome` folder, create a new file named `userChrome.css`. If the file already exists, you can just edit it.

5. Open `userChrome.css` with a text editor and paste the following code:

```css
/* Reduce Menu and Contextual Menu height */
:root {
  --arrowpanel-menuitem-padding: 4px 8px !important;
}

menupopup > menuitem, menupopup > menu {
  padding-block: var(--arrowpanel-menuitem-padding) !important;
}
```

6. Save the file and close it.

7. Restart Firefox for the changes to take effect.

This CSS code reduces the padding around menu items, effectively reducing the spacing between them. You can adjust the `4px 8px` values to your liking. The first value is the vertical padding (top and bottom) and the second value is the horizontal padding (left and right).

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can modify the userChrome.css file to change the spacing between menu items in Firefox. Here's how you can do it:

1. First, you need to make sure that Firefox is set to allow the use of userChrome.css. To do this, type `about:config` in the address bar and press Enter. Accept the risk and continue, then in the search bar type `toolkit.legacyUserProfileCustomizations.stylesheets` and make sure it's set to `true`. If not, double click it to change its value.

2. Next, you need to find your Firefox profile folder. Type `about:support` in the address bar and press Enter. In the "Application Basics" section, click on "Open Directory" next to "Profile Directory". This will open your profile directory in your file explorer.

3. In your profile directory, look for a folder named `chrome`. If it doesn't exist, create it. Inside the `chrome` folder, look for a file named `userChrome.css`. If it doesn't exist, create it.

4. Open `userChrome.css` with a text editor. To reduce the spacing between menu items, add the following code:

```css
/* Reduce spacing on menus */
menupopup > menuitem, menupopup > menu {
  padding-block: 4px !important;
}

/* Reduce spacing on context menus */
#contentAreaContextMenu menuitem, #contentAreaContextMenu menu {
  padding-block: 4px !important;
}
```

5. Save the `userChrome.css` file and restart Firefox. The changes should now be applied.

The `padding-block: 4px !important;` line is what controls the spacing. You can adjust the `4px` value to increase or decrease the spacing as you see fit.

--------
