
# Post \#73165823 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73165823/)

## How can select 1 element from the 8 elements matching my selectors. [Cypress test]

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 691 (684/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-142

Created at 2022-07-29 11:15:02

Tags: `css` `css-selectors` `cypress` `ui-automation`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am trying to verify the heading of a section when running a test, using this locater `[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex span:first-child`
I am getting 4 elements I want to select the first one**(Joined)** of the 4 elements
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/fH3a9.png)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can use the `:first-of-type` pseudo-class selector to select the first element among the group of siblings. Here is how you can modify your locator:

```css
[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex span:first-of-type
```

This will select the first `span` element that is a direct child of an element with the class `flex` within the element having `data-cy` attribute as `offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer`.

However, if the first `span` is not the one you want (i.e., "Joined"), you may need to use `:nth-of-type(n)` or `:nth-child(n)` where `n` is the index of the element. Remember that CSS uses 1-based indexing, not 0-based like in most programming languages.

For example, if "Joined" is the second `span`, you would use:

```css
[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex span:nth-of-type(2)
```

If you're using JavaScript to interact with the DOM, you can use the `querySelector` or `querySelectorAll` method to get the element:

```javascript
// Get the first span
let firstSpan = document.querySelector('[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex span:first-of-type');

// Get the second span
let secondSpan = document.querySelector('[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex span:nth-of-type(2)');
```

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

You can use the `:first-of-type` pseudo-class to select the first element among the 4 elements. Here is how you can modify your locator:

```javascript
[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex span:first-of-type
```

This will select the first `span` element inside the `.flex` class. If this doesn't work, it might be because the `span` elements are not direct siblings. In that case, you can use the `:nth-child()` pseudo-class to select the specific `span` element:

```javascript
[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex span:nth-child(1)
```

This will select the first `span` element inside the `.flex` class. 

Please note that the `:first-of-type` and `:nth-child()` pseudo-classes work based on the type of the element and its position among its siblings, not its position inside the parent element.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can select the first element by using the `:first-of-type` pseudo-class in your CSS selector. Here is how you can modify your locator:

```css
[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex span:first-of-type
```

This will select the first `span` element that is a direct child of an element with the class `.flex` within an element with the attribute `data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"`.

However, if there are multiple `.flex` elements and you want to select the first `span` of the first `.flex`, you might need to use `:first-of-type` twice:

```css
[data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"] .flex:first-of-type span:first-of-type
```

This will select the first `span` of the first `.flex` within an element with the attribute `data-cy="offerBreakUpTableHeaderCellRenderer"`.

--------
