
# Post \#67133460 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67133460/)

## How to make a triangle shape with Tailwind?

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 17833 (323/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-150

Created at 2021-04-16 23:56:44

Tags: `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
<div class="">
                <div class="w-16 h-16 border-b-30 border-l-30 border-solid border-black">
                    <div class="h-16 w-16 border-t-30 border-r-30 bg-transparent"></div>
                </div>
</div>
```

how to make a triangle with tailwindCss without plugin ??


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To create a triangle with Tailwind CSS, you can use the border utility classes to create a border triangle. Here's an example of how to create a triangle with a black border and transparent background:

```
<div class="border-b-30 border-l-30 border-solid border-black w-0 h-0">
</div>
```

To add a tail to the triangle, you can nest another div inside the first one and apply the border utility classes to it:

```
<div class="w-16 h-16 border-b-30 border-l-30 border-solid border-black">
    <div class="h-16 w-16 border-t-30 border-r-30 bg-transparent"></div>
</div>
```

This will create a triangle with a tail on the bottom left corner. You can adjust the size and position of the triangle by changing the values of the border utility classes.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To create a triangle with Tailwind CSS, you can use the `border` utility classes. Here's an example of how to create a triangle with a black border and transparent background:

```
<div class="w-0 h-0 border-t-20 border-r-20 border-b-0 border-l-20 border-solid border-black"></div>
```

You can adjust the size of the triangle by changing the values of the `border` classes. For example, to make a larger triangle, you can increase the values of the `border` classes:

```
<div class="w-0 h-0 border-t-40 border-r-40 border-b-0 border-l-40 border-solid border-black"></div>
```

To add a tail to the triangle, you can wrap the triangle in a container with a larger border on one side. Here's an example:

```
<div class="w-0 h-0 border-t-20 border-r-20 border-b-0 border-l-30 border-solid border-black">
  <div class="w-0 h-0 border-t-20 border-r-30 border-b-0 border-l-20 border-solid border-transparent"></div>
</div>
```

In this example, the outer container has a larger border on the left side to create the tail. The inner container has a transparent background and is positioned slightly to the right to create the triangle shape. You can adjust the size and position of the tail and triangle by changing the values of the `border` classes and adjusting the container sizes and positions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To create a triangle with Tailwind CSS, you can use the border property to create a triangle shape. Here's an example:

```
<div class="w-0 h-0 border-t-8 border-r-8 border-b-0 border-l-8 border-gray-900"></div>
```

This will create a triangle with a border width of 8 pixels and a gray color. You can adjust the border width and color to your liking. 

To add a tail to the triangle, you can use the ::before or ::after pseudo-elements and position them accordingly. Here's an example:

```
<div class="relative">
  <div class="w-0 h-0 border-t-8 border-r-8 border-b-0 border-l-8 border-gray-900"></div>
  <div class="absolute w-4 h-4 bg-gray-900 bottom-0 left-0 transform rotate-45"></div>
</div>
```

In this example, we've added a small square to the bottom left of the triangle using the ::after pseudo-element. We've positioned it absolutely and rotated it 45 degrees to create the tail. You can adjust the size and position of the tail to your liking.

--------
