
# Post \#69906920 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69906920/)

## Css changes are not being applied in rails app

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 1179 (648/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-151

Created at 2021-11-10 01:18:50

Tags: `css` `ruby-on-rails` `asset-pipeline` `assets`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css` `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am working on rails app and now I am having trouble.
> Early when I use to change my frontend styling and apply changes in css then they quickly show up on reload in brower.
> But in present, don't know but something went wrong. Whenever I change css and save it then onload, things remain same.
After debugging, I found that app is picking styling files from precompiled assets pipeline. So for the solution, I have to recompile the assets then 2 new files are generated against wach file changed. And there will be 4 files in total against a single css file in which changes are made. So now I have to delete old ones and then have to restart the serve and refreshing the browser will show all the changing and that is weird as I have to do it all the time for every single change.
I can't figure as I am new to rails. Help....


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It sounds like you are experiencing issues with the Rails asset pipeline. The asset pipeline is responsible for compiling and serving your application's static assets, including CSS files.

When you make changes to your CSS files, the asset pipeline should automatically recompile them and serve the updated version to your browser. However, it seems like this is not happening in your case.

Here are a few things you can try to fix the issue:

1. Check your development environment settings: Make sure that your development environment is set up correctly. In particular, make sure that the `config.assets.debug` setting is set to `true` in your `config/environments/development.rb` file. This will ensure that the asset pipeline does not use precompiled assets in development mode.

2. Clear your cache: Sometimes, the asset pipeline can get stuck serving old assets from the cache. To fix this, try clearing your browser cache and restarting your Rails server.

3. Use the `asset_path` helper: When referencing your CSS files in your HTML templates, make sure to use the `asset_path` helper. This will ensure that the correct version of the file is served, even if it has been recompiled by the asset pipeline. For example:

   ```
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="<%= asset_path('application.css') %>">
   ```

4. Disable asset caching: If none of the above solutions work, you can try disabling asset caching altogether. To do this, set the `config.assets.digest` setting to `false` in your `config/environments/development.rb` file. However, keep in mind that this will slow down your application's asset serving performance.

I hope these suggestions help you resolve your issue!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It sounds like you are experiencing issues with the Rails asset pipeline. The asset pipeline is a feature of Rails that helps to manage and optimize the loading of static assets such as CSS, JavaScript, and images.

When you make changes to your CSS files, the asset pipeline may not always pick up those changes immediately. This is because the asset pipeline is designed to precompile your assets for production use, which means that it may cache your assets and serve them from the cache instead of the original files.

To fix this issue, you can try disabling asset caching in your development environment. To do this, you can add the following line to your `config/environments/development.rb` file:

```ruby
config.assets.digest = false
```

This will disable asset caching and force Rails to serve your assets directly from the original files. However, keep in mind that this may slow down your application's performance in development mode.

Alternatively, you can try using a tool like Guard to automatically recompile your assets whenever you make changes to your CSS files. Guard is a tool that watches your files for changes and runs tasks automatically when changes are detected. You can use it to automatically recompile your assets whenever you make changes to your CSS files.

To use Guard with Rails, you will need to install the `guard-rails-assets` gem and configure it in your `Guardfile`. You can find more information on how to use Guard with Rails in the official documentation.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It sounds like you are experiencing issues with the asset pipeline in your Rails application. The asset pipeline is responsible for compiling and serving your application's static assets, including CSS files.

One possible solution is to disable asset pipeline caching in your development environment. To do this, you can add the following line to your `config/environments/development.rb` file:

```
config.assets.digest = false
```

This will disable the generation of unique asset filenames based on their content, which should make it easier to see changes to your CSS files without having to recompile the assets.

Another option is to use a tool like Guard to automatically recompile your assets whenever a file changes. Guard can be configured to watch your CSS files and automatically recompile them whenever changes are detected. This can save you time and make it easier to see changes in real-time.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------
