
# Post \#70906977 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70906977/)

## Tailwind underline hover animation

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 8831 (437/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-149

Created at 2022-01-29 15:32:03

Tags: `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've spent a day figuring out how to make an animation after hovering over the link by using Tailwind-CSS.
Here is the animation I want mine link looks like the video.
[Sample from Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aswRKAjjWuE)
I have tried using `:after`, but it didn't work out.
Here is my link component => [https://codepen.io/qqharry21/pen/xxPwqjQ](https://codepen.io/qqharry21/pen/xxPwqjQ)
I Hope can learn how to fix it, and make it works like the video by Tailwind-CSS, thanks!


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

I've reviewed your code and the video you provided. Here's how you can create a similar effect using Tailwind CSS.

Firstly, you need to add the `group` class to the parent element of the link. This allows you to target child elements when the parent is hovered over.

Next, you need to create an underline element using the `::after` pseudo-element. You can't directly apply pseudo-classes or pseudo-elements in Tailwind CSS, so you need to use custom CSS for this.

Finally, you need to animate the underline element when the link is hovered over. You can use the `transition`, `transform`, and `group-hover` utilities in Tailwind CSS for this.

Here's an example of how you can do this:

```html
<div class="group inline-block">
  <a href="#" class="text-blue-500 hover:text-blue-800 transition-colors duration-200">
    Hover me
  </a>
  <style>
    .group:hover a::after {
      width: 100%;
    }
    .group a::after {
      content: '';
      display: block;
      width: 0;
      height: 2px;
      background: currentColor;
      transition: width .3s;
    }
  </style>
</div>
```

In this example, the underline element is initially hidden (width: 0). When the link is hovered over, the width of the underline element is set to 100%, creating the slide-in effect. The transition utility is used to animate the change in width.

Please note that you need to configure Tailwind CSS to enable the `group-hover` variant for the `transform` and `transition` utilities. You can do this in the `tailwind.config.js` file:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  variants: {
    extend: {
      transform: ['group-hover'],
      transitionProperty: ['group-hover'],
    },
  },
  plugins: [],
}
```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any questions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

I see that you are trying to create a hover animation for your link using Tailwind CSS. Here's a simple way to achieve this:

First, you need to add the `relative` class to your link to position the pseudo-element correctly. Then, you can use the `group` class to control the child's behavior when hovering over the parent.

Here's an example of how to do it:

HTML:
```html
<div class="p-10 space-x-4">
  <a href="#" class="group relative text-blue-600 hover:text-blue-800">
    Hover me
    <span class="absolute h-1 bg-blue-600 left-0 bottom-0 transform scale-x-0 group-hover:scale-x-100 transition-transform duration-200 ease-in-out"></span>
  </a>
</div>
```

In this example, I'm using a `span` element to create the underline effect. The `scale-x-0` class sets the initial state of the underline (hidden), and the `group-hover:scale-x-100` class reveals it when you hover over the link.

The `transition-transform duration-200 ease-in-out` classes are used to animate the transformation.

This should give you a similar effect to the one in the video you provided. You can adjust the classes as needed to fit your design.

Please note that you need to have `@tailwindcss/forms` and `@tailwindcss/typography` plugins and also enable the `group-hover` variant in your Tailwind CSS configuration for this to work.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

I've looked at your code and the video you provided. Here's how you can achieve the desired effect using Tailwind CSS:

First, you need to add a `span` element inside your `a` element. This `span` will serve as the underline for your link. You will animate this underline when the link is hovered.

Here's the modified HTML:

```html
<a href="#" class="relative block">
  Hover me
  <span class="absolute h-1 bg-black bottom-0 left-0 w-0 group-hover:w-full transition-all duration-200"></span>
</a>
```

In the above code, the `span` is positioned absolutely at the bottom of the `a` element. It has a height of 1 and a width of 0. When the `a` element is hovered, the width of the `span` is set to `full`, creating the underline effect.

Next, you need to add some CSS to your `a` element to create the group hover effect. You can do this by adding the `group` class to your `a` element:

```html
<a href="#" class="relative block group">
  Hover me
  <span class="absolute h-1 bg-black bottom-0 left-0 w-0 group-hover:w-full transition-all duration-200"></span>
</a>
```

In the above code, the `group` class is added to the `a` element. This allows the `group-hover` variant to work on the `span` element.

Finally, you need to enable the `group-hover` variant in your Tailwind CSS configuration. You can do this by adding `group-hover` to the `variants` section of your `tailwind.config.js` file:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  variants: {
    extend: {
      width: ['group-hover'],
    }
  },
  plugins: [],
}
```

In the above code, the `group-hover` variant is enabled for the `width` utility. This allows you to change the width of an element when its parent is hovered.

With these changes, your link should now have the desired hover animation.

--------
