
# Post \#61455473 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61455473/)

## How to use :not() in tailwind.css?

**Vote**: 40 (158/702) **Views**: 40131 (195/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-148

Created at 2020-04-27 09:17:33

Tags: `css` `css-selectors` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I recently started to give tailwind.css a try in my Nuxt project. so I needed to use `:not(:last-child)` pseudo-elements but I didn't find how.

```
<ul>
    <li
      v-for="(item, index) in items"
      :key="`item-${index}`"
      class="border-solid border-b border-black"
    >
      Item
    </li>
  </ul>
```


I want to add a border-bottom to all of the `<li>` except the last one.

I know Tailwind has [first](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/pseudo-class-variants/#first-child-v1-1-0) & [last](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/pseudo-class-variants/#last-child-v1-1-0) pseudo-class variant but I can't use them with `:not()`


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can achieve this by using the `group` feature in Tailwind CSS. Here's how you can modify your code to add a border-bottom to all of the `<li>` except the last one:

```
<ul class="border-solid border-b border-black">
  <template v-for="(item, index) in items">
    <li
      :key="`item-${index}`"
      class="group last:border-b-0"
    >
      Item
    </li>
  </template>
</ul>
```

In this code, we added the `border-b` class to the `<ul>` element to give it a border-bottom. Then, we used a `v-for` loop to iterate over the `items` array and create a `<li>` element for each item. We added the `group` class to the `<ul>` element to enable the use of the `last` pseudo-class variant. Finally, we added the `last:border-b-0` class to the `<li>` element to remove the border-bottom from the last item.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can achieve this by using the `group` feature in Tailwind CSS. Here's how you can modify your code to achieve the desired result:

```
<ul class="border-solid border-b border-black">
  <template v-for="(item, index) in items">
    <li
      :key="`item-${index}`"
      class="group last:border-b-0"
    >
      Item
    </li>
  </template>
</ul>
```

In this code, we have added the `group` class to the parent `ul` element. Then, we have used the `last:border-b-0` class on the `li` element to remove the bottom border from the last item in the list.

The `group` class is used to create a context for the child elements. This allows us to use the `last` pseudo-class variant on the `li` element, which targets the last child of the `ul` element. The `border-b-0` class is used to remove the bottom border from the last item in the list.

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can achieve this by using the `group` feature in Tailwind. Here's how you can modify your code to achieve the desired result:

```
<ul class="border-solid border-b border-black">
  <template v-for="(item, index) in items">
    <li
      :key="`item-${index}`"
      class="group last:border-b-0"
    >
      Item
    </li>
  </template>
</ul>
```

In this code, we are adding the `group` class to the parent `ul` element. Then, we are using a `template` tag with a `v-for` directive to loop through the `items` array. Inside the loop, we are adding the `last:border-b-0` class to the `li` element. This class will remove the bottom border from the last `li` element.

The `group` class is used to apply styles to the parent element based on the child elements. In this case, we are using it to remove the bottom border from the last `li` element.

--------
