
# Post \#50840168 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50840168/)

## How to detect if the OS is in dark mode in browsers?

**Vote**: 270 (8/702) **Views**: 104230 (80/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-138

Created at 2018-06-13 14:47:48

Tags: `css` `macos` `safari` `media-queries` `darkmode`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Similar to "[How to detect if OS X is in dark mode?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25207077/how-to-detect-if-os-x-is-in-dark-mode)" only for browsers.

Has anyone found if there is a way to detect if the user's system is in the new OS X Dark Mode in Safari/Chrome/Firefox?

We would like to change our site's design to be dark-mode friendly based on the current operating mode.


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, you can detect if the user's system is in dark mode by using the CSS media feature `prefers-color-scheme`. This feature is used to detect if the user has requested the system use a light or dark color theme.

Here's a basic example:

```css
@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
  body {
    background-color: black;
    color: white;
  }
}

@media (prefers-color-scheme: light) {
  body {
    background-color: white;
    color: black;
  }
}
```

In the example above, the website will display a dark theme (white text on a black background) if the user's system is in dark mode, and a light theme (black text on a white background) if the user's system is in light mode.

This feature is supported in Safari 12.1, Firefox 67, and Chrome 76 and later versions.

If you want to detect this in JavaScript, you can use the `window.matchMedia` method:

```javascript
if (window.matchMedia && window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches) {
    // dark mode
}
```

This will return true if the user's system is in dark mode.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, you can detect if a user's system is in dark mode using CSS media queries. The `prefers-color-scheme` media feature is used to detect if the user has requested the system use a light or dark color theme.

Here's an example:

```css
@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
  /* CSS for dark mode */
  body {
    background-color: black;
    color: white;
  }
}

@media (prefers-color-scheme: light) {
  /* CSS for light mode */
  body {
    background-color: white;
    color: black;
  }
}
```

In this example, the browser will apply the dark mode styles if the user's system is set to dark mode, and the light mode styles if it's set to light mode.

You can also use JavaScript to detect the user's preferred color scheme:

```javascript
if (window.matchMedia && window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches) {
    // dark mode is enabled
}
```

This feature is supported in Safari 12.1, Firefox 67, and Chrome 76 and later versions.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, you can detect if the user's system is in dark mode using CSS media queries or JavaScript.

Here's how you can do it:

**CSS:**
```css
@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
  /* Dark mode styles go here */
}
```
This media query will apply the styles inside it if the user's system is set to dark mode.

**JavaScript:**
```javascript
if (window.matchMedia && window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches) {
  // Dark mode
}
```
This JavaScript code will execute the code inside the if statement if the user's system is set to dark mode.

You can also listen for changes with JavaScript:
```javascript
window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').addEventListener('change', e => {
  const newColorScheme = e.matches ? "dark" : "light";
});
```
This code will execute whenever the user changes their system color scheme.

Please note that this feature is not supported in all browsers. As of now, it's supported in Firefox 67+, Chrome 76+, and Safari 12.1+.

--------
