
# Post \#68909199 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68909199/)

## Invalid CSS value error while Customizing Bootstrap 5 colors with sass 3

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 5838 (504/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-137

Created at 2021-08-24 14:34:46

Tags: `css` `sass` `bootstrap-5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I want to change bootstrap's default theme-colors with SASS , the problem is when I change a color and compile , it gives me invalid CSS value error.
I've read the docs and saw some tutorials on YouTube but I can't see where is the problem
I'm using bootstrap 5.1.0 , sass 3
this is my scss file:
```
@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/variables";

$theme-colors: (
"primary": //some color here,
);

@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/bootstrap";
```

and this is the error I get in terminal
```
PS F:\Coding\projects\sepehr\client\src\styles> sass style.scss custom.css
Error: ("primary": #0d6efd, "secondary": #6c757d, "success": #198754, "info": #0dcaf0, 
"warning": #ffc107, "danger": #dc3545, "light": #f8f9fa, "dark": #212529) isn't a valid 
CSS value.
   ╷
94 │ $theme-colors-rgb: map-loop($theme-colors, to-rgb, "$value") !default;
   │                             ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
   ╵
```



----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The error message suggests that the `$theme-colors` variable is not in a valid CSS format. Bootstrap's `variables.scss` file expects the `$theme-colors` variable to be in a specific format, which is an associative array of color names and their values in hexadecimal format.

To fix the error, you need to make sure that your `$theme-colors` variable is in the correct format. Here's an example of how you can define the `$theme-colors` variable:

```
$theme-colors: (
  "primary": #0d6efd,
  "secondary": #6c757d,
  "success": #198754,
  "info": #0dcaf0,
  "warning": #ffc107,
  "danger": #dc3545,
  "light": #f8f9fa,
  "dark": #212529
);

@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/bootstrap";
```

Make sure that you define the colors in hexadecimal format and that you separate the color names and values with a colon. Once you've defined the `$theme-colors` variable correctly, you should be able to compile your SCSS file without any errors.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The error message suggests that the `map-loop` function is expecting a valid CSS value, but it's receiving a map instead. This could be because you're missing a semicolon after defining the `primary` color in your `$theme-colors` map.

Try updating your code to the following:

```
@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/variables";

$theme-colors: (
  "primary": #your-color-here;
);

@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/bootstrap";
```

Make sure to replace `#your-color-here` with the actual color value you want to use.

Also, make sure that you have installed the latest version of Sass (currently 1.37.5) and that you're using the correct command to compile your SCSS file. The correct command should be:

```
sass style.scss custom.css
```

If you're still having issues, try removing the `!default` flag from the `$theme-colors-rgb` variable in the Bootstrap source code. This flag is used to set a default value if the variable is not already defined, but it can sometimes cause issues when overriding variables. To remove the flag, find the following line in `_variables.scss`:

```
$theme-colors-rgb: map-loop($theme-colors, to-rgb, "$value") !default;
```

And change it to:

```
$theme-colors-rgb: map-loop($theme-colors, to-rgb, "$value");
```

Save the file and try compiling your SCSS again.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The issue seems to be with the format of your `$theme-colors` variable. Bootstrap's `variables.scss` file expects the `$theme-colors` variable to be a map of color names and their corresponding values in hex format. 

Try updating your `$theme-colors` variable to match this format:

```
$theme-colors: (
  "primary": #your-color-here,
);
```

Make sure to replace `#your-color-here` with the hex code of the color you want to use for the primary theme color.

Also, make sure that you have imported the `functions` and `mixins` files from Bootstrap's `scss` directory before importing the `variables` and `bootstrap` files. Your SCSS file should look something like this:

```
@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/functions";
@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/mixins";
@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/variables";

$theme-colors: (
  "primary": #your-color-here,
);

@import "../../node_modules/bootstrap/scss/bootstrap";
```

After making these changes, try compiling your SCSS file again and see if the error persists.

--------
