
# Post \#47788847 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47788847/)

## Font Awesome 5 font-family issue

**Vote**: 79 (78/702) **Views**: 199315 (37/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-140

Created at 2017-12-13 08:48:09

Tags: `css` `fonts` `font-awesome-5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I integrated Font Awesome 5 in a project with bootstrap 4. When I recall a font via CSS it does not work.
with Font Awesome 4 the code was as follows:

```
#mainNav .navbar-collapse .navbar-sidenav .nav-link-collapse:after {
  float: right;
  content: "\f107";
  font-family: "FontAwesome";
}
```


I tried to change the font name but it does not work

```
font-family: 'Font Awesome 5 Free'
```



----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Font Awesome 5, the way to use icons has changed a bit. Now, there are different font families for different styles of icons. For example, "Font Awesome 5 Free" for solid icons, "Font Awesome 5 Brands" for brand icons, and "Font Awesome 5 Regular" for regular icons.

Also, you need to specify the font-weight because Font Awesome 5 uses different font weights. For the free version, the font weights are 400 for regular style, and 900 for solid style.

So, if you want to use a solid icon, you should use:

```css
#mainNav .navbar-collapse .navbar-sidenav .nav-link-collapse:after {
  float: right;
  content: "\f107";
  font-family: 'Font Awesome 5 Free';
  font-weight: 900;
}
```

And if you want to use a regular icon, you should use:

```css
#mainNav .navbar-collapse .navbar-sidenav .nav-link-collapse:after {
  float: right;
  content: "\f107";
  font-family: 'Font Awesome 5 Free';
  font-weight: 400;
}
```

Please make sure you have included the correct Font Awesome 5 CSS file in your project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Font Awesome 5, the way to use icons in CSS has changed a bit. Now, you need to specify the font-weight as well because Font Awesome 5 has different weights for some icons.

Here's how you can modify your CSS:

```css
#mainNav .navbar-collapse .navbar-sidenav .nav-link-collapse:after {
  float: right;
  content: "\f107";
  font-family: 'Font Awesome 5 Free';
  font-weight: 900;
}
```

You need to make sure that you have included the correct Font Awesome 5 CSS file in your HTML. For example:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://use.fontawesome.com/releases/v5.0.13/css/all.css">
```

Also, ensure that the unicode you are using ("\f107") corresponds to the correct icon in Font Awesome 5. Some icons have different unicodes in Font Awesome 5 compared to Font Awesome 4. You can check the correct unicode on the Font Awesome website.

If you are using Font Awesome Pro, you might need to use 'Font Awesome 5 Pro' as the font-family.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Font Awesome 5 has made some changes in how it is used compared to Font Awesome 4. The main change is that the free version of Font Awesome 5 uses SVG icons instead of font icons. 

However, if you want to use Font Awesome 5 as a font (like Font Awesome 4), you can use the "Web Fonts with CSS" version of Font Awesome 5. 

Here is how you can use it:

1. First, make sure you have included the correct CSS file in your HTML:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://use.fontawesome.com/releases/v5.15.4/css/all.css">
```

2. Then, you can use the Font Awesome 5 icons in your CSS like this:

```css
#mainNav .navbar-collapse .navbar-sidenav .nav-link-collapse:after {
  float: right;
  content: "\f107";
  font-family: 'Font Awesome 5 Free';
  font-weight: 900; /* This is necessary for Font Awesome 5 */
}
```

Please note that you need to specify `font-weight: 900;` for Font Awesome 5 Free. This is because Font Awesome 5 Free icons are only available in the Solid style, which corresponds to a font weight of 900. 

If you are using Font Awesome 5 Pro, you can use different font weights to get different styles of icons (Light, Regular, Solid).

--------
