
# Post \#68393652 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68393652/)

## How to install bootstrap in laravel 8

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 42832 (185/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-147

Created at 2021-07-15 12:15:51

Tags: `css` `laravel` `twitter-bootstrap` `laravel-8`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css` `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

All of the info I can find online says that you should install bootstrap by running `composer require laravel/ui` and then `php artisan ui boostrap`. However, in Laravel 8, `laravel/ui` is deprecated. Is there a new/better way of installing bootstrap?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, in Laravel 8, you can install Bootstrap using the following command:

```
npm install bootstrap
```

After installing Bootstrap, you can compile your assets using Laravel Mix by running the following command:

```
npm run dev
```

This will compile your assets and create a `public/css/app.css` file that includes Bootstrap. You can then include this file in your HTML templates to use Bootstrap styles.

Alternatively, you can use a package like `laravel-mix-bootstrap` to simplify the installation process. To install this package, run the following command:

```
npm install laravel-mix-bootstrap --save-dev
```

After installing the package, you can include Bootstrap in your Laravel Mix configuration file (`webpack.mix.js`) like this:

```
const mix = require('laravel-mix');
const bootstrap = require('laravel-mix-bootstrap');

mix.js('resources/js/app.js', 'public/js')
   .sass('resources/sass/app.scss', 'public/css')
   .webpackConfig({
       plugins: [
           bootstrap({
               // Options go here
           })
       ]
   });
```

This will automatically download and include Bootstrap in your project, and you can customize the installation by passing options to the `bootstrap()` function.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, in Laravel 8, you can install Bootstrap using the following command:

```
npm install bootstrap
```

This will install Bootstrap and its dependencies in your project's `node_modules` directory.

After installing Bootstrap, you can include it in your project by adding the following line to your `resources/css/app.css` file:

```
@import '~bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
```

And the following line to your `resources/js/app.js` file:

```
require('bootstrap');
```

Then, you can compile your assets using Laravel Mix by running the following command:

```
npm run dev
```

This will compile your assets and make them available in your `public` directory. You can then include them in your HTML templates as needed.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, in Laravel 8, you can install Bootstrap using the following command:

```
npm install bootstrap
```

This will install the latest version of Bootstrap in your project. After that, you can include the Bootstrap CSS and JavaScript files in your Laravel application by adding the following lines to your `resources/css/app.css` and `resources/js/app.js` files:

```
// resources/css/app.css

@import '~bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
```

```
// resources/js/app.js

import 'bootstrap';
```

Once you have included the Bootstrap files, you can start using Bootstrap classes and components in your Laravel views.

--------
