
# Post \#69422296 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69422296/)

## Using Flex CSS and Bootstrap for a responsive layout

**Vote**: 5 (499/702) **Views**: 2308 (595/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-141

Created at 2021-10-03 05:24:53

Tags: `css` `twitter-bootstrap` `flexbox` `bootstrap-5`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have been experimenting with full responsive layouts between desktops, tablet, and mobile phone sizes for a bit but am having trouble with the layout below.
I was using a grid layout from bootstrap but since it is two columns, as the width shrinks, the second column of two  goes below the left, main content section. I want to split it up as the screen caps below state.
This is the starting view:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/4XVfh.png)
This is what I want to happen:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/jLJ14.png)
This would be the mobile phone view:
[](https://i.stack.imgur.com/zUL8l.png)
So the wide view will get shrunk during testing and I want it to jump to the mobile view where the top side bar goes above the main content and matches the width of the main content while the bottom sidebar does the same thing to the bottom.
It is easy to put both sidebars on the bottom but I want to try to figure out the possibility of splitting it up.
For testing I am using flexbox, css3 and bootstrap5+ and no plugins or javascript.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To achieve the layout you want, you can use a combination of flexbox and media queries. Here's an example code snippet to get you started:

HTML:

```
<div class="container">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-lg-8 order-lg-1 order-2 main-content">
      <!-- Main content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="col-lg-4 order-lg-2 order-1 top-sidebar">
      <!-- Top sidebar content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="col-lg-4 order-lg-3 order-3 bottom-sidebar">
      <!-- Bottom sidebar content goes here -->
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

CSS:

```
.container {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
}

.main-content {
  flex-basis: 100%;
}

.top-sidebar,
.bottom-sidebar {
  flex-basis: calc(50% - 15px);
  margin: 0 15px;
}

@media (min-width: 992px) {
  .top-sidebar {
    order: 2;
  }
  .bottom-sidebar {
    order: 3;
  }
}

@media (max-width: 991px) {
  .top-sidebar,
  .bottom-sidebar {
    flex-basis: 100%;
    margin: 0;
  }
}
```

Explanation:

- The `container` class is set to `display: flex` to make the child elements flex items.
- The `main-content` class is set to `flex-basis: 100%` to make it take up the full width of the container.
- The `top-sidebar` and `bottom-sidebar` classes are set to `flex-basis: calc(50% - 15px)` to make them each take up half of the container width minus the margin.
- The `order` property is used to change the order of the elements on larger screens, so that the `top-sidebar` comes before the `bottom-sidebar`.
- The media queries are used to adjust the layout at different screen sizes. On screens larger than 992px, the `top-sidebar` and `bottom-sidebar` are set to their original widths and orders. On screens smaller than 992px, the `top-sidebar` and `bottom-sidebar` are set to take up the full width of the container.

Note that you may need to adjust the CSS values to fit your specific layout and content.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To achieve the layout you want, you can use a combination of flexbox and media queries. Here's an example code snippet that should help you get started:

HTML:

```
<div class="container">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-lg-3 col-md-12 order-lg-1 order-md-2 sidebar-top">
      <!-- Top sidebar content -->
    </div>
    <div class="col-lg-6 col-md-12 order-lg-2 order-md-1 main-content">
      <!-- Main content -->
    </div>
    <div class="col-lg-3 col-md-12 order-lg-3 order-md-3 sidebar-bottom">
      <!-- Bottom sidebar content -->
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

CSS:

```
.container {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
}

.sidebar-top,
.main-content,
.sidebar-bottom {
  flex: 1;
}

@media (max-width: 991.98px) {
  .sidebar-top,
  .sidebar-bottom {
    order: 3;
  }
  
  .main-content {
    order: 1;
  }
  
  .sidebar-top,
  .sidebar-bottom {
    width: 100%;
  }
}
```

Explanation:

- The HTML code uses Bootstrap's grid system to create three columns: a left sidebar, a main content section, and a right sidebar.
- The `order` classes are used to change the order of the columns on smaller screens. The `order-lg-*` classes specify the order for larger screens, while the `order-md-*` classes specify the order for medium screens.
- The CSS code sets the container to use flexbox and wrap its contents. This allows the columns to stack vertically on smaller screens.
- The `flex: 1` property is used to make all three columns take up equal space.
- The media query targets screens smaller than 992px (the breakpoint for medium screens in Bootstrap). It changes the order of the columns and sets the width of the sidebars to 100% to make them stack above and below the main content section.

You can customize the styles and breakpoints to fit your specific needs. I hope this helps!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To achieve the layout you want, you can use a combination of flexbox and media queries. Here's an example code snippet to get you started:

HTML:

```
<div class="container">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-lg-3 col-md-12 order-lg-1 order-md-2">
      <!-- Left sidebar content -->
    </div>
    <div class="col-lg-6 col-md-12 order-lg-2 order-md-1">
      <!-- Main content -->
    </div>
    <div class="col-lg-3 col-md-12 order-lg-3 order-md-3">
      <!-- Right sidebar content -->
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

CSS:

```
.container {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
}

.col-lg-3 {
  flex: 0 0 25%;
  max-width: 25%;
}

.col-lg-6 {
  flex: 0 0 50%;
  max-width: 50%;
}

.col-lg-3:last-child {
  margin-left: auto;
}

@media (max-width: 991.98px) {
  .col-lg-3 {
    flex: 0 0 100%;
    max-width: 100%;
  }
  
  .col-lg-6 {
    flex: 0 0 100%;
    max-width: 100%;
  }
  
  .col-lg-3:last-child {
    margin-left: 0;
  }
  
  .order-lg-1 {
    order: 2;
  }
  
  .order-lg-2 {
    order: 1;
  }
  
  .order-lg-3 {
    order: 3;
  }
}
```

Explanation:

- The `.container` element is set to `display: flex` and `flex-wrap: wrap` to allow the columns to wrap to the next line when the screen size is reduced.
- The `.col-lg-*` classes are used to set the width of the columns for large screens (screens wider than 992px). The left and right sidebars are set to 25% width and the main content is set to 50% width.
- The `.col-lg-3:last-child` selector is used to move the right sidebar to the right edge of the container.
- The media query targets screens smaller than 992px and sets the width of all columns to 100% to make them stack vertically. The `.order-lg-*` classes are used to change the order of the columns so that the left sidebar appears above the main content and the right sidebar appears below it.

With this code, the layout should adjust as you described when the screen size changes. You can adjust the column widths and order as needed to fit your design.

--------
