
# Post \#68723861 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68723861/)

## How to change menu item spacing in Firefox Proton

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 2412 (589/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-143

Created at 2021-08-10 08:58:47

Tags: `css` `firefox`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Firefox Proton increased the menu item spacing to levels that displease me. I heard this kind of problem can often be solved by modifying CSSes internal to Firefox. Which CSS should I change, and how, to reduce the spacing between menu items?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To reduce the spacing between menu items in Firefox Proton, you can modify the browser's userChrome.css file. Here are the steps to do so:

1. Open Firefox and type "about:config" in the address bar.
2. Search for "toolkit.legacyUserProfileCustomizations.stylesheets" and set it to "true".
3. Open your Firefox profile folder. You can find the location of your profile folder by typing "about:support" in the address bar and looking for "Profile Folder" under "Application Basics".
4. In your profile folder, create a new folder called "chrome" (if it doesn't already exist).
5. Inside the "chrome" folder, create a new file called "userChrome.css".
6. Open the "userChrome.css" file in a text editor and add the following code:

```
/* Reduce spacing between menu items */
#PanelUI-menu .subviewbutton {
  padding-top: 4px !important;
  padding-bottom: 4px !important;
}
```

7. Save the "userChrome.css" file and restart Firefox.

This code will reduce the padding (i.e. spacing) between menu items in Firefox Proton's menu. You can adjust the values of "padding-top" and "padding-bottom" to your liking.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To reduce the spacing between menu items in Firefox Proton, you can modify the browser's userChrome.css file. Here are the steps to follow:

1. Open Firefox and type "about:config" in the address bar. Press Enter.
2. Click on "Accept the Risk and Continue" if prompted.
3. In the search bar, type "toolkit.legacyUserProfileCustomizations.stylesheets" and set it to "true".
4. Open your Firefox profile folder. You can find it by typing "about:support" in the address bar and clicking on "Open Folder" next to "Profile Folder".
5. If there is no "chrome" folder in your profile folder, create one.
6. Inside the "chrome" folder, create a new file called "userChrome.css".
7. Open the "userChrome.css" file in a text editor.
8. Add the following code to the file:

```
/* Reduce spacing between menu items */
#PanelUI-menu-button .panel-subview-body {
  padding-block: 4px !important;
}
```

9. Save the file and restart Firefox.

This should reduce the spacing between menu items in Firefox Proton. You can adjust the "padding-block" value to your liking.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To reduce the spacing between menu items in Firefox Proton, you can modify the browser's userChrome.css file. Here are the steps to follow:

1. Open Firefox and type "about:config" in the address bar.
2. Search for "toolkit.legacyUserProfileCustomizations.stylesheets" and set it to "true".
3. Open your Firefox profile folder by typing "about:support" in the address bar and clicking on the "Open Folder" button next to "Profile Folder".
4. In the profile folder, create a new folder called "chrome" (if it doesn't already exist).
5. Inside the "chrome" folder, create a new file called "userChrome.css".
6. Open the "userChrome.css" file with a text editor.
7. Add the following code to the file:

```
/* Reduce spacing between menu items */
#PanelUI-menu .subviewheader {
  padding-block: 0.25em !important;
}
#PanelUI-menu .subviewbody > menuitem {
  padding-block: 0.25em 0.5em !important;
}
```

8. Save the file and restart Firefox.

This should reduce the spacing between menu items in Firefox Proton. If you want to adjust the spacing further, you can modify the values in the CSS code (e.g. change "0.25em" to "0.1em" for tighter spacing).

--------
