
# Post \#69906920 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69906920/)

## Css changes are not being applied in rails app

**Vote**: 0 (696/702) **Views**: 1179 (648/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-151

Created at 2021-11-10 01:18:50

Tags: `css` `ruby-on-rails` `asset-pipeline` `assets`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css` `ruby`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am working on rails app and now I am having trouble.
> Early when I use to change my frontend styling and apply changes in css then they quickly show up on reload in brower.
> But in present, don't know but something went wrong. Whenever I change css and save it then onload, things remain same.
After debugging, I found that app is picking styling files from precompiled assets pipeline. So for the solution, I have to recompile the assets then 2 new files are generated against wach file changed. And there will be 4 files in total against a single css file in which changes are made. So now I have to delete old ones and then have to restart the serve and refreshing the browser will show all the changing and that is weird as I have to do it all the time for every single change.
I can't figure as I am new to rails. Help....


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

It seems like you're having trouble with Rails' asset pipeline. The asset pipeline is a powerful feature in Rails that makes it easy to write and manage your CSS, JavaScript, and other assets. However, it can sometimes cause confusion, especially when it comes to caching and precompiling assets.

Here's a few things you can try:

1. **Disable caching in development**: Rails may be caching your assets in development, which can cause changes to not appear until you clear the cache or restart the server. You can disable this by setting `config.assets.debug = true` in your `config/environments/development.rb` file.

2. **Disable precompiling in development**: Similarly, Rails may be precompiling your assets in development, which can cause changes to not appear until you recompile the assets. You can disable this by setting `config.assets.compile = false` in your `config/environments/development.rb` file.

3. **Use the `rails dev:cache` command**: This command toggles development mode caching on and off. If it's on, you'll see a message saying "Development mode is now being cached." If it's off, you'll see a message saying "Development mode is no longer being cached." Try running this command and see if it helps.

4. **Check your CSS syntax**: If there's a syntax error in your CSS, Rails may not be able to parse it, which can cause changes to not appear. Make sure your CSS is valid and doesn't contain any errors.

5. **Check your file paths**: Make sure the paths to your CSS files are correct. If Rails can't find your CSS files, it won't be able to apply your changes.

6. **Try a hard refresh**: Sometimes, your browser may cache your CSS, which can cause changes to not appear. You can do a hard refresh by pressing `Ctrl + F5` (or `Cmd + Shift + R` on a Mac).

If none of these solutions work, there may be a deeper issue with your Rails setup. In that case, you may want to consider seeking help from a Rails expert or a Rails community forum.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you're having trouble with Rails' asset pipeline. The asset pipeline is a feature in Rails that concatenates and minifies or compresses JavaScript and CSS assets. It also adds the ability to write these assets in other languages such as CoffeeScript, Sass and ERB.

When you're in development mode, Rails is supposed to compile assets on-the-fly, meaning that you shouldn't have to precompile your assets every time you make a change. However, if you've precompiled your assets at some point, Rails might be serving those precompiled assets instead of compiling them on-the-fly.

Here are a few steps you can take to solve this issue:

1. **Clear your precompiled assets**: You can do this by running `rake assets:clobber` in your terminal. This will remove all precompiled assets.

2. **Disable asset precompiling in development**: In your `config/environments/development.rb` file, make sure the following line is set to `false`:

    ```ruby
    config.assets.debug = false
    ```

    This will disable the concatenation and compression of assets, causing them to be compiled individually and making them easier to debug.

3. **Check your CSS manifest file**: Rails uses a manifest file to determine which CSS files to include. This file is usually located at `app/assets/stylesheets/application.css`. Make sure that your CSS file is being required in this manifest file.

4. **Restart your server**: After making these changes, restart your server to ensure that the changes take effect.

If you're still having trouble after trying these steps, there might be an issue with your Rails setup. In that case, you might want to consider creating a new Rails app and gradually moving your code over to see if the problem persists.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems like you are having an issue with Rails asset pipeline. The asset pipeline is a feature by Rails that concatenates and minifies or compresses JavaScript and CSS assets. It also adds the ability to write these assets in other languages such as CoffeeScript, Sass and ERB.

In the development environment, Rails does not concatenate and minify assets for easier debugging. However, it seems like your Rails app is serving precompiled assets instead of assets in the app/assets directory.

Here are a few things you can try:

1. **Disable asset precompilation in development:**
   In `config/environments/development.rb`, make sure the following line is set to `false`:
   ```ruby
   config.assets.debug = false
   ```
   This will prevent Rails from serving precompiled assets in the development environment.

2. **Clear precompiled assets:**
   You can clear precompiled assets by running the following command in your terminal:
   ```bash
   rake assets:clobber
   ```
   This will remove all precompiled assets.

3. **Enable live asset reloading:**
   In `config/environments/development.rb`, you can enable live reloading of assets with the following line:
   ```ruby
   config.assets.digest = true
   ```
   This will make Rails generate a new cache-busting fingerprint every time an asset is changed.

4. **Check your CSS and JavaScript manifest files:**
   Rails uses manifest files (`application.css` and `application.js`) to determine which assets to serve. Make sure your CSS and JavaScript files are being required in these manifest files.

Remember to restart your Rails server after making these changes. If you are still having issues, please provide more details about your Rails version and your `development.rb` configuration file.

--------
