
# Post \#55551405 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55551405/)

## Tailwind CSS - Responsive breakpoints as components

**Vote**: 31 (190/702) **Views**: 49955 (163/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-139

Created at 2019-04-06 16:59:57

Tags: `css` `media-queries` `responsive` `tailwind-css` `scss-mixins`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How should I deal with responsive breakpoints as components in Tailwind?

Without Tailwind, I used to declare breakpoints as a scss mixins:

```
@mixin tablet-portrait {
  @media (min-width: 700px) {
    @content;
  }
}
```


Then:

```
@include tablet-portrait {
  // whatever
}
```


I know that Tailwind has responsive utility clases to use it inline as `md:color-red` but I need to abstract this breakpoins as components, as in above example.

How should I extract Tailwind breakpoints from Tailwind config file?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Tailwind CSS, you can define your breakpoints in the `tailwind.config.js` file. Here's an example:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    screens: {
      'sm': '640px',
      'md': '768px',
      'lg': '1024px',
      'xl': '1280px',
      '2xl': '1536px',
    },
    extend: {},
  },
  variants: {},
  plugins: [],
}
```

These breakpoints are then available to use with any utility class, just prefix the utility with the name of the breakpoint followed by a colon. For example, `md:text-center`.

If you want to abstract these breakpoints into components, you can use `@apply` directive in your CSS. Here's an example:

```css
@media (min-width: theme('screens.md')) {
  .my-component {
    @apply text-center text-red-500;
  }
}
```

In this example, `my-component` will have `text-center` and `text-red-500` styles applied at the `md` breakpoint.

Remember to use `postcss` and `postcss-import` to process your CSS files. This is necessary for the `@apply` directive and `theme()` function to work.

Here's a sample `postcss.config.js`:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    require('postcss-import'),
    require('tailwindcss'),
    require('autoprefixer'),
  ]
}
```

And in your main CSS file:

```css
@import 'path/to/your/component.css';
```

This way, you can abstract your responsive styles into separate components and still use the power of Tailwind's utility classes.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Tailwind CSS, you can define your breakpoints in your tailwind.config.js file. Here's an example:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    screens: {
      'sm': '640px',
      'md': '768px',
      'lg': '1024px',
      'xl': '1280px',
      '2xl': '1536px',
    },
    extend: {},
  },
  variants: {},
  plugins: [],
}
```

In the above example, 'sm', 'md', 'lg', 'xl', '2xl' are the breakpoints. You can use these breakpoints in your utility classes like `md:text-center`, `lg:w-1/2`, etc.

If you want to create a component with these breakpoints, you can use the `@apply` directive in your CSS. Here's an example:

```css
.component {
  @apply text-center;
}

@media (min-width: 768px) {
  .component {
    @apply text-left;
  }
}
```

In the above example, the `.component` class will center the text on small screens and align it to the left on medium and larger screens.

If you want to extract the breakpoints from the Tailwind config file, you can use the `theme()` function. Here's an example:

```css
@media (min-width: theme('screens.md')) {
  .component {
    @apply text-left;
  }
}
```

In the above example, the `theme('screens.md')` function will return the 'md' breakpoint from the Tailwind config file.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Tailwind CSS, you can create responsive components by using the `@apply` directive in combination with the responsive variants. However, you can't directly use `@apply` with responsive variants. You'll need to create a new class and then use that class in your HTML.

Here's an example:

```css
/* tailwind.config.js */
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    screens: {
      'sm': '640px',
      'md': '768px',
      'lg': '1024px',
      'xl': '1280px',
      '2xl': '1536px',
    },
  },
  variants: {},
  plugins: [],
}
```

```css
/* styles.css */
@layer components {
  .tablet-portrait {
    @apply block;
  }
  @screen md {
    .tablet-portrait {
      @apply hidden;
    }
  }
}
```

In the above example, the `.tablet-portrait` class will apply `display: block;` by default, and `display: none;` on medium screens and above.

You can then use this class in your HTML:

```html
<div class="tablet-portrait">This will be hidden on medium screens and above.</div>
```

This is how you can abstract breakpoints as components in Tailwind CSS. It's a bit different from how you would do it in SCSS, but it's just as powerful and flexible.

--------
