
# Post \#68393652 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68393652/)

## How to install bootstrap in laravel 8

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 42832 (185/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-147

Created at 2021-07-15 12:15:51

Tags: `css` `laravel` `twitter-bootstrap` `laravel-8`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css` `php`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

All of the info I can find online says that you should install bootstrap by running `composer require laravel/ui` and then `php artisan ui boostrap`. However, in Laravel 8, `laravel/ui` is deprecated. Is there a new/better way of installing bootstrap?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

Yes, in Laravel 8, the `laravel/ui` package has been replaced by the `laravel/breeze` and `laravel/jetstream` packages. If you want to install Bootstrap, you can use Laravel Breeze. Here are the steps:

1. First, you need to install Laravel Breeze via Composer. Run the following command:

```bash
composer require laravel/breeze --dev
```

2. Then, you need to install Breeze's views and controllers using the `breeze:install` Artisan command:

```bash
php artisan breeze:install
```

This command will install a layout view, registration and login views, as well as routes for all authentication end-points. A HomeController will also be generated to handle post-login requests.

3. After running this command, you'll need to compile your assets using Laravel Mix:

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

Now, Laravel Breeze is installed and you can use Bootstrap in your Laravel 8 project.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

Yes, Laravel 8 has deprecated the `laravel/ui` package and introduced the `laravel/breeze` package for authentication scaffolding. However, if you want to install Bootstrap without any authentication scaffolding, you can use the `laravel/ui` package even in Laravel 8. 

But if you want to follow the Laravel 8 way, you can use Laravel Jetstream which provides a beautiful, robust starting point for all your Laravel applications, including login, registration, email verification, two-factor authentication, session management, API support via Laravel Sanctum, and optional team management.

Here's how you can install Laravel Jetstream with Bootstrap:

1. Install Laravel Jetstream via Composer:

```bash
composer require laravel/jetstream
```

2. After installing Jetstream, you may create a new Laravel project using the desired stack:

```bash
php artisan jetstream:install inertia
```
or
```bash
php artisan jetstream:install livewire
```

3. Since Jetstream is designed using Tailwind CSS, you may need to install and configure Laravel Mix to compile your CSS if you want to use Bootstrap. You can install Bootstrap via npm:

```bash
npm install bootstrap
```

4. Then, you can import Bootstrap in your `resources/css/app.css`:

```css
@import '~bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
```

5. Finally, compile your CSS:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Remember, Laravel Jetstream and Laravel Breeze are designed to use Tailwind CSS, not Bootstrap. If you want to use Bootstrap, you may need to customize the views and styles yourself.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

Yes, in Laravel 8, the `laravel/ui` package has been replaced by the `laravel/breeze` and `laravel/jetstream` packages. These packages provide a simple starting point for building a Laravel application with authentication, powered by Bootstrap, Tailwind CSS, and Vue.js.

Here is how you can install Bootstrap in Laravel 8:

1. First, you need to install the `laravel/breeze` package. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
composer require laravel/breeze --dev
```

2. After the package is installed, you can use the `breeze:install` Artisan command to install the authentication scaffolding:

```bash
php artisan breeze:install
```

By default, this command will install the views and routes for login, registration, password reset, and email verification. It will also install a dashboard view and route.

3. If you want to use Bootstrap, you can specify it as an option when running the `breeze:install` command:

```bash
php artisan breeze:install bootstrap
```

4. After running the `breeze:install` command, you should compile your assets using the `npm install && npm run dev` command:

```bash
npm install && npm run dev
```

This will install all necessary npm packages and compile your CSS and JavaScript assets.

5. Finally, you need to run the migrations with the `migrate` Artisan command:

```bash
php artisan migrate
```

This will create the necessary tables in your database.

Now, you should have a Laravel 8 application with Bootstrap installed.

--------
