
# Post \#70906977 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70906977/)

## Tailwind underline hover animation

**Vote**: 9 (409/702) **Views**: 8831 (437/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-149

Created at 2022-01-29 15:32:03

Tags: `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I've spent a day figuring out how to make an animation after hovering over the link by using Tailwind-CSS.
Here is the animation I want mine link looks like the video.
[Sample from Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aswRKAjjWuE)
I have tried using `:after`, but it didn't work out.
Here is my link component => [https://codepen.io/qqharry21/pen/xxPwqjQ](https://codepen.io/qqharry21/pen/xxPwqjQ)
I Hope can learn how to fix it, and make it works like the video by Tailwind-CSS, thanks!


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

To achieve the desired animation effect, you can use the `transition` property in CSS. Here's how you can modify your code to achieve the desired effect:

1. Add the following CSS to your `.link` class:

```css
.link {
  position: relative;
}

.link::after {
  content: "";
  position: absolute;
  bottom: -2px;
  left: 0;
  width: 100%;
  height: 2px;
  background-color: #000;
  transform: scaleX(0);
  transform-origin: bottom left;
  transition: transform 0.3s ease-out;
}

.link:hover::after {
  transform: scaleX(1);
  transform-origin: bottom right;
}
```

2. Remove the `border-bottom` property from the `.link:hover` class.

The `::after` pseudo-element is used to create a line that will be animated on hover. The `transform` property is used to scale the line from 0 to 1 on hover. The `transform-origin` property is used to set the origin of the transformation to the bottom left corner of the line. The `transition` property is used to set the duration and easing of the animation.

Here's the updated codepen: [https://codepen.io/anon/pen/ROQJjV](https://codepen.io/anon/pen/ROQJjV)

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

To achieve the animation effect shown in the video, you can use the `transform` property in CSS. Here's how you can modify your code to achieve the desired effect:

1. Add the following CSS to your `.link` class:

```
.link {
  position: relative;
  display: inline-block;
  color: #000;
  text-decoration: none;
  font-weight: 600;
  transition: all 0.3s ease-in-out;
}

.link:hover {
  color: #fff;
}

.link::before {
  content: "";
  position: absolute;
  bottom: -2px;
  left: 0;
  width: 100%;
  height: 2px;
  background-color: #000;
  transform: scaleX(0);
  transform-origin: left;
  transition: transform 0.3s ease-in-out;
}

.link:hover::before {
  transform: scaleX(1);
}
```

2. Remove the `:after` pseudo-element from your `.link` class.

This code will create a horizontal line that will appear below the link when you hover over it. The `transform` property is used to animate the line from left to right. The `transform-origin` property is used to set the origin of the transformation to the left side of the line. The `transition` property is used to animate the transformation over a period of 0.3 seconds.

I hope this helps you achieve the desired effect!

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

To achieve the animation effect in the video using Tailwind-CSS, you can use the `transition` and `transform` properties. Here's how you can modify your code to achieve the desired effect:

1. Add the `transition` property to the `.link` class to specify the duration and easing of the animation:

```
.link {
  ...
  transition: transform 0.2s ease-in-out;
}
```

2. Add the `transform` property to the `:hover` pseudo-class of the `.link` class to specify the transformation that should occur when the link is hovered over:

```
.link:hover::after {
  ...
  transform: scaleX(1);
}
```

3. Modify the `::after` pseudo-element to have a `transform` property that scales the element horizontally to 0:

```
.link::after {
  ...
  transform: scaleX(0);
}
```

Here's the modified codepen with the changes: [https://codepen.io/anon/pen/zeQvJv](https://codepen.io/anon/pen/zeQvJv)

With these changes, the link will have the desired animation effect when hovered over.

--------
