
# Post \#67133460 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67133460/)

## How to make a triangle shape with Tailwind?

**Vote**: 7 (449/702) **Views**: 17833 (323/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-150

Created at 2021-04-16 23:56:44

Tags: `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

```
<div class="">
                <div class="w-16 h-16 border-b-30 border-l-30 border-solid border-black">
                    <div class="h-16 w-16 border-t-30 border-r-30 bg-transparent"></div>
                </div>
</div>
```

how to make a triangle with tailwindCss without plugin ??


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

You can create a triangle using Tailwind CSS without a plugin by using the utility classes for width, height, and background color. However, Tailwind CSS does not have built-in classes for borders or shapes like triangles. 

But you can extend the functionality of Tailwind CSS by adding custom styles in your CSS file. Here's an example of how you can create a triangle:

```html
<div class="triangle"></div>
```

And in your CSS file:

```css
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;

@layer components {
  .triangle {
    width: 0;
    height: 0;
    border-left: 50px solid transparent;
    border-right: 50px solid transparent;
    border-bottom: 100px solid red;
  }
}
```

This will create a red triangle pointing upwards. You can adjust the size of the triangle by changing the border sizes. The color of the triangle can be changed by modifying the border-bottom color.

Remember to build your CSS again if you're using Tailwind with PostCSS:

```bash
npx tailwindcss build styles.css -o output.css
```

This command will take your CSS file (styles.css), process it, and create a new CSS file (output.css) with the processed styles.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

To create a triangle in Tailwind CSS without a plugin, you can use the utility classes for width, height, and border styles. However, Tailwind CSS doesn't support border-widths greater than 8 out of the box, so you'll need to extend your Tailwind CSS configuration to support larger border-widths if you want to create a larger triangle.

Here is an example of how to create a triangle:

```html
<div class="relative w-16 h-16">
  <div class="absolute inset-0 m-auto w-0 h-0 border-solid border-l-8 border-transparent border-r-8 border-b-16 border-black"></div>
</div>
```

In this example, we're using the border trick to create a triangle. The border-left and border-right are transparent and half the width of the border-bottom, which is the actual triangle. The border-top is not specified, so it defaults to 0.

The triangle will point upwards. If you want it to point in a different direction, you can adjust which borders are transparent and which one has a color. For example, to make it point to the right, you would use border-top and border-bottom as transparent and border-left as the actual triangle.

Remember to adjust the border sizes to control the size of the triangle.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

You can create a triangle using Tailwind CSS by using the utility classes for width, height, and border. However, Tailwind CSS does not support border-triangle out of the box, so you need to use a custom CSS solution.

Here is an example of how to create a triangle:

```html
<div class="relative w-16 h-16">
  <div class="absolute w-0 h-0 border-solid border-l-16 border-t-16 border-l-transparent border-t-transparent border-b-16 border-black"></div>
</div>
```

In this example, we are creating a div with a relative position and a specific width and height. Inside this div, we create an absolute positioned div with no width and height, but with borders. The borders create the triangle shape. The border colors are set to transparent, except for the border we want to use to create the triangle (in this case, the bottom border).

Please note that you need to adjust the border sizes to get the triangle size you want. Also, this solution might not work if you are using the JIT mode in Tailwind CSS v2.1+, because it only generates classes that are used in your HTML.

--------
