
# Post \#71093772 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71093772/)

## How to truncate text in TailwindCSS?

**Vote**: 4 (532/702) **Views**: 9031 (430/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-145

Created at 2022-02-12 16:36:41

Tags: `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I am using `truncate` in TailwindCSS to make text ellipsis if text-overflow more than one line but it does not work.
My code not works below:
```
<div className="ml-1 inline-block">
   <span>Label: </span>
   <span className="font-semibold truncate">
     long texttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
   </span>
</div>
```




----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `truncate` class in Tailwind CSS only works for single line text. It sets `overflow: hidden`, `text-overflow: ellipsis`, and `white-space: nowrap` which makes the text to be truncated with an ellipsis (...) when it overflows its containing element.

For multiline text truncation, you would need to use a different approach as CSS does not natively support multiline text truncation. 

Here is a workaround using line-clamp which is supported in Tailwind CSS v2.0+:

```jsx
<div className="ml-1 inline-block w-64">
   <span>Label: </span>
   <span className="font-semibold overflow-hidden overflow-ellipsis">
     long texttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
   </span>
</div>
```

In this example, `w-64` is used to set a width to the container. You should adjust this value according to your needs. 

Please note that `line-clamp` is not fully supported in all browsers, especially in IE. If you need to support all browsers, you may need to use a JavaScript-based solution.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `truncate` class in Tailwind CSS only works for single line text. It sets `overflow: hidden`, `text-overflow: ellipsis`, and `white-space: nowrap`. Therefore, it won't work for multiline text.

If you want to truncate text that spans multiple lines, you will need to use some custom CSS, as Tailwind CSS does not currently support multiline text truncation out of the box.

Here's an example of how you can do it:

```css
.truncate-multiline {
  display: -webkit-box;
  -webkit-line-clamp: 2; /* number of lines to show */
  -webkit-box-orient: vertical;  
  overflow: hidden;
}
```

Then, you can use this class in your JSX:

```jsx
<div className="ml-1 inline-block">
   <span>Label: </span>
   <span className="font-semibold truncate-multiline">
     long texttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
   </span>
</div>
```

This will truncate the text after 2 lines. You can adjust the `-webkit-line-clamp` value to change the number of lines shown before truncation.

Please note that this solution uses `-webkit-` prefixed properties, which means it may not work in all browsers. It is known to work in most modern browsers, but it may not work in older versions or less common browsers.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `truncate` class in Tailwind CSS only works for single line text. It sets `overflow: hidden`, `text-overflow: ellipsis`, and `white-space: nowrap` which means it will not work for multiline text.

If you want to truncate text that spans multiple lines, you'll need to use some custom CSS. Here's an example of how you might do it:

```css
.truncate-lines {
  display: -webkit-box;
  -webkit-line-clamp: 2; /* number of lines to show */
  -webkit-box-orient: vertical;
  overflow: hidden;
  text-overflow: ellipsis;
}
```

Then, you can use this class in your JSX:

```jsx
<div className="ml-1 inline-block">
   <span>Label: </span>
   <span className="font-semibold truncate-lines">
     long texttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
   </span>
</div>
```

This will truncate the text after 2 lines. You can adjust the `-webkit-line-clamp` value to change the number of lines before truncation.

Please note that this solution uses `-webkit-` prefixed properties, which means it may not work in all browsers. It is supported in most modern browsers, but if you need to support a wide range of browsers, you may need to find a different solution.

--------
