
# Post \#58901066 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58901066/)

## How to quickly create <div> classes in VSCode

**Vote**: 16 (306/702) **Views**: 57334 (147/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-1-134

Created at 2019-11-17 13:45:31

Tags: `css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `css` (full parsed tag list: `css`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

Generally new to web design and watching some tutorials on creating some backend for a project, getting really tired of writing out the  manually, I see youtubers do .classname and then the class with the div appears, but for some reason it isn't working for me? Any help would be appreciated.

Also, would it be easier to switch to Sublime, my buddies think that it is the way to go.

Cheers.


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

It sounds like you're trying to use a CSS preprocessor like Sass or Less, which allows you to write CSS in a more efficient and organized way. In Sass, for example, you can use the syntax `&.classname` to target an element with a specific class. However, if you're new to web design, it might be best to stick with regular CSS for now until you have a better understanding of the basics.

As for your question about Sublime, it's a popular code editor among developers, but it ultimately comes down to personal preference. If you're comfortable with your current editor, there's no need to switch. However, if you're finding it difficult to work with, it might be worth exploring other options like Sublime or Visual Studio Code to see if they better suit your needs.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

It sounds like you're trying to use a CSS preprocessor like Sass or Less, which allows you to write CSS in a more efficient and organized way. In Sass, for example, you can use the `&` symbol to reference the parent selector and create nested styles. Here's an example:

```
.parent {
  background-color: blue;

  & .child {
    color: white;
  }
}
```

This will compile to:

```
.parent {
  background-color: blue;
}

.parent .child {
  color: white;
}
```

Make sure you have a preprocessor installed and configured in your development environment. If you're using a framework like React or Angular, it may already be included.

As for switching to Sublime, it's a matter of personal preference. Sublime is a popular code editor with many useful features, but there are other options like Visual Studio Code and Atom that are also worth considering. Try out a few and see which one you like best.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

It sounds like you may be missing some key steps in your HTML and CSS code. When using the class attribute in HTML, you need to make sure that you have defined the class in your CSS stylesheet. For example, if you have a div with the class "my-class", you would need to have the following code in your CSS stylesheet:

```
.my-class {
  /* CSS properties here */
}
```

This will allow you to style the div with the "my-class" class. Make sure that your CSS stylesheet is linked correctly in your HTML file as well.

As for switching to Sublime, it's a matter of personal preference. Sublime is a popular code editor among developers, but there are many other options out there as well. It's worth trying out a few different editors to see which one works best for you.

--------
