
# Post \#68877941 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68877941/)

## Is there a shorter way to write a border on only one side?

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 23806 (270/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-153

Created at 2021-08-22 01:51:23

Tags: `html` `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I got borders on all the edges by doing something like:
It is actually a mistake, but at the time of the question I believe I can draw a line only to the TOP with the following code. (Actually, lines are drawn on all edges.)
```
<div class="border border-blue-900 border-t-1">foo</div>
```

I wanted to display it only on one side, so I did some research.
I noticed that when I used `border` in `tailwindcss`,
the following was output in the output file.
> /**- 
1. Prevent padding and border from affecting element width.

- - - - - `content-box`- - [https://github.com/mozdevs/cssremedy/issues/4](https://github.com/mozdevs/cssremedy/issues/4)- - - 
1. Allow adding a border to an element by just adding a border-width.

- - - `none`- - - `border-width`- `solid`- `border`- `border-width``border`- - - [https://github.com/tailwindcss/tailwindcss/pull/116](https://github.com/tailwindcss/tailwindcss/pull/116)
The original of this output would have come from
[https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/blob/723e8d4377eb25b66a6224f767937fa02762eb52/src/plugins/css/preflight.css#L71](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/blob/723e8d4377eb25b66a6224f767937fa02762eb52/src/plugins/css/preflight.css#L71)
I thought this was probably the cause.
I have succeeded in applying it only to the top edge by writing the following.
```
<div class="border border-blue-900 border-t-1 border-l-0 border-r-0 border-b-0">foo</div>
```

However, this is too long. Is there any way to make it shorter?
 I am also considering the following as alternatives.
[How do I take it as a parameter in JIT?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68877759/how-do-i-take-it-as-a-parameter-in-jit)
This way, I can also adjust the width (not the width in the border, it is for `display: block`).
What I want to do is just display it on any one side, so the above link is trying to display it on the bottom. (In other words, it doesn't matter if it's at the top, bottom, or anywhere else. It's just an example.)


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

Yes, there is a shorter way to achieve the same result using the `border-t` utility class. You can simply add the `border-t` class along with the `border-blue-900` class to the element to apply the border only to the top edge. Here's an example:

```
<div class="border-t border-blue-900">foo</div>
```

This will apply a border only to the top edge of the element with a blue color. You can also adjust the width of the border by adding the `border-t-1` class (or any other number) to set the border width.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

Yes, there is a way to make it shorter. You can use the `border-t` utility class to apply a border to only the top edge. Here's an example:

```
<div class="border-t border-blue-900 border-1">foo</div>
```

This will apply a blue border with a width of 1 pixel only to the top edge of the element. You can adjust the color and width by changing the values of the `border-blue-900` and `border-1` classes respectively.

Alternatively, you can create a custom utility class using the `@layer` directive in your `tailwind.config.js` file. Here's an example:

```
// tailwind.config.js
module.exports = {
  theme: {},
  variants: {},
  plugins: [
    function ({ addUtilities }) {
      addUtilities({
        '.border-top': {
          borderTopWidth: '1px',
          borderTopStyle: 'solid',
          borderTopColor: '#1a202c',
        },
      }, ['responsive'])
    }
  ],
}
```

This will create a new utility class called `.border-top` that you can use to apply a border to only the top edge of an element. You can adjust the color and width by changing the values of the `borderTopColor` and `borderTopWidth` properties respectively. To use this class, simply add it to your HTML element like this:

```
<div class="border-top">foo</div>
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

Yes, there is a way to make it shorter. You can use the `border-t` utility class to apply a border to only the top edge. Here's an example:

```
<div class="border-t border-blue-900 border-1">foo</div>
```

This will apply a blue border with a width of 1 pixel only to the top edge of the element. You can adjust the color and width by changing the values of the `border-blue-900` and `border-1` classes respectively.

Alternatively, you can create a custom utility class using the `@layer` directive in your `tailwind.config.js` file. Here's an example:

```
// tailwind.config.js

module.exports = {
  // ...
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  variants: {},
  plugins: [
    function ({ addUtilities }) {
      addUtilities({
        '.border-top': {
          borderTopWidth: '1px',
          borderTopStyle: 'solid',
        },
      }, ['responsive']);
    },
  ],
}
```

This will create a `.border-top` utility class that applies a solid border with a width of 1 pixel only to the top edge of the element. You can use this class in your HTML like this:

```
<div class="border-top border-blue-900">foo</div>
```

This will apply a blue border with a width of 1 pixel only to the top edge of the element.

--------
