
# Post \#68877941 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68877941/)

## Is there a shorter way to write a border on only one side?

**Vote**: 12 (356/702) **Views**: 23806 (270/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-153

Created at 2021-08-22 01:51:23

Tags: `html` `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I got borders on all the edges by doing something like:
It is actually a mistake, but at the time of the question I believe I can draw a line only to the TOP with the following code. (Actually, lines are drawn on all edges.)
```
<div class="border border-blue-900 border-t-1">foo</div>
```

I wanted to display it only on one side, so I did some research.
I noticed that when I used `border` in `tailwindcss`,
the following was output in the output file.
> /**- 
1. Prevent padding and border from affecting element width.

- - - - - `content-box`- - [https://github.com/mozdevs/cssremedy/issues/4](https://github.com/mozdevs/cssremedy/issues/4)- - - 
1. Allow adding a border to an element by just adding a border-width.

- - - `none`- - - `border-width`- `solid`- `border`- `border-width``border`- - - [https://github.com/tailwindcss/tailwindcss/pull/116](https://github.com/tailwindcss/tailwindcss/pull/116)
The original of this output would have come from
[https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/blob/723e8d4377eb25b66a6224f767937fa02762eb52/src/plugins/css/preflight.css#L71](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/blob/723e8d4377eb25b66a6224f767937fa02762eb52/src/plugins/css/preflight.css#L71)
I thought this was probably the cause.
I have succeeded in applying it only to the top edge by writing the following.
```
<div class="border border-blue-900 border-t-1 border-l-0 border-r-0 border-b-0">foo</div>
```

However, this is too long. Is there any way to make it shorter?
 I am also considering the following as alternatives.
[How do I take it as a parameter in JIT?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68877759/how-do-i-take-it-as-a-parameter-in-jit)
This way, I can also adjust the width (not the width in the border, it is for `display: block`).
What I want to do is just display it on any one side, so the above link is trying to display it on the bottom. (In other words, it doesn't matter if it's at the top, bottom, or anywhere else. It's just an example.)


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

In Tailwind CSS, you can use the border utilities to add a border to a specific side of an element. You can specify the border color, width, and style.

If you want to add a border only to the top of an element, you can use the `border-t` utility. Here's an example:

```html
<div class="border-t border-blue-900">foo</div>
```

This will add a 1px blue border to the top of the div. If you want to specify a different border width, you can use the `border-t-{n}` utility, where `{n}` is the width of the border in pixels. For example, `border-t-2` will add a 2px border.

If you want to add a border to a different side of the element, you can use the `border-r`, `border-b`, or `border-l` utilities for the right, bottom, and left sides, respectively.

Regarding your question about making the code shorter, unfortunately, there's no built-in way in Tailwind CSS to do this. The border utilities are designed to be explicit and self-explanatory, which means they can sometimes be a bit verbose. However, this verbosity also makes your code easier to understand and maintain.

If you find yourself repeatedly using the same combination of border utilities, you might consider creating a custom CSS class or a Tailwind CSS plugin to encapsulate them. This can help to keep your HTML clean and DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself).

As for the JIT (Just-In-Time) mode in Tailwind CSS, it allows you to use arbitrary values in your utility classes, which can be useful for creating responsive designs or for working with values that aren't included in your theme configuration. However, it doesn't provide a way to shorten the border utilities.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

In Tailwind CSS, you can apply a border to a specific side of an element by using the border-width utilities. The border-width utilities control the width of an element's border.

For example, if you want to apply a border to the top side of an element, you can use the `border-t` utility. If you want to apply a border to the right side of an element, you can use the `border-r` utility. Similarly, you can use the `border-b` and `border-l` utilities to apply a border to the bottom and left sides of an element, respectively.

However, if you want to apply a border to only one side of an element and you find the class string too long, you can create a custom utility class in your Tailwind CSS configuration file.

Here's an example of how you can create a custom utility class for a top border:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    extend: {
      borderWidth: {
        '1t': '1px 0 0 0',
      },
      borderColor: theme => ({
        ...theme('colors'),
         'blue-900': '#2c3e50',
      }),
    },
  },
  variants: {},
  plugins: [],
}
```

Then, you can use this custom utility class in your HTML like this:

```html
<div class="border-1t border-blue-900">foo</div>
```

This will apply a 1px border to the top side of the element and color it with the color `blue-900`.

As for your question about JIT, you can use the `@apply` directive to create a new utility class that applies a set of existing utility classes. However, this feature is currently experimental and may not work as expected in all situations.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

In Tailwind CSS, you can apply a border to only one side of an element by using the `border-{t|r|b|l}-{size}` classes. 

For example, if you want to apply a border to the top of an element, you can use the `border-t-{size}` class. Here's an example:

```html
<div class="border-t-2 border-blue-900">foo</div>
```

In this example, a 2px blue border will be applied to the top of the div.

If you want to apply a border to the right, bottom, or left of an element, you can use the `border-r-{size}`, `border-b-{size}`, or `border-l-{size}` classes, respectively.

However, if you want to make your code shorter and more maintainable, you can create a custom class in your CSS file and use it in your HTML. Here's an example:

```css
.border-top {
  border-width: 0;
  border-top-width: 1px;
}
```

Then, in your HTML, you can use this class like this:

```html
<div class="border-top border-blue-900">foo</div>
```

This way, you only need to specify the border color in your HTML, and the border size and position are defined in your CSS.

As for the JIT mode in Tailwind CSS, it currently doesn't support passing parameters to classes. However, you can use the `@apply` directive in your CSS to create custom classes that apply multiple utility classes. Here's an example:

```css
.border-top {
  @apply border-0 border-t-1 border-blue-900;
}
```

Then, in your HTML, you can use this class like this:

```html
<div class="border-top">foo</div>
```

This way, you can apply multiple utility classes with a single custom class.

--------
