
# Post \#63986278 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63986278/)

## Vue 3 ::v-deep usage as a combinator has been deprecated. Use ::v-deep(<inner-selector>) instead

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 43434 (182/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-157

Created at 2020-09-21 04:40:07

Tags: `css` `vue.js` `vuejs3`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I started getting the following warning in Vue 3 with the `::v-deep` usage.
```
::v-deep usage as a combinator has been deprecated. Use ::v-deep(<inner-selector>) instead
```

The CSS looks like as follows:
```
.parent ::v-deep .child {
   ...
}
```

What's the correct way to use suggested option `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)`?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The warning message is suggesting to use `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)` instead of `::v-deep` as a combinator. 

In your case, you can update the CSS selector as follows:

```
.parent ::v-deep(.child) {
   ...
}
```

This will apply the styles to the `.child` element inside the `.parent` component.

Note that `::v-deep` is used to apply styles to child components from a parent component. However, it is recommended to use scoped CSS or CSS modules instead of `::v-deep` whenever possible to avoid potential conflicts with other components.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `::v-deep` combinator has been deprecated in Vue 3 and replaced with the `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)` syntax. To use the new syntax, you need to replace the `::v-deep` combinator with the `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)` syntax.

For example, if you have the following CSS:

```
.parent ::v-deep .child {
   ...
}
```

You can update it to use the new syntax like this:

```
.parent ::v-deep(.child) {
   ...
}
```

This will apply the styles to the `.child` element inside the `.parent` element.

Note that the `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)` syntax only works with the `>>>` and `::v-deep` selectors. If you're using the `/deep/` selector, you'll need to replace it with `>>>` or `::v-deep`.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The correct way to use `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)` is to replace the deprecated `::v-deep` usage as a combinator with the new syntax. 

For example, if you want to target a child element with the class `child` inside a parent element with the class `parent`, you can use the following syntax:

```
.parent ::v-deep(.child) {
   ...
}
```

This will apply the styles to the child element with the class `child` inside the parent element with the class `parent`. 

Note that the `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)` syntax is only available in Vue 3 and later versions. If you are using an earlier version of Vue, you will need to use a different approach to achieve the same result.

--------
