
# Post \#67119992 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67119992/)

## How to access all the direct children of a div in tailwindcss?

**Vote**: 39 (159/702) **Views**: 48682 (168/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-166

Created at 2021-04-16 06:14:49

Tags: `html` `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have this html:
```
<div class="section">
   <div class="header">header</div>
   <div class="content">
      <div>sub contents 1</div>              
      <div>sub contents 2</div>
   </div>
</div>
```

I want to access the direct children of div with class "section" which would be divs with class: "header" and "content".
I know with css we can do: `div.section > div`
But how to do this using ?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

It seems like you accidentally left out the method you want to use to access the direct children of the div with class "section". However, I'll provide you with a few common ways to do this in JavaScript and jQuery:

1. JavaScript:

```javascript
let section = document.querySelector('.section');
let children = section.children;
```

In this code, `children` will be a HTMLCollection of the direct children of the div with class "section".

2. jQuery:

```javascript
let children = $('.section').children();
```

In this code, `children` will be a jQuery object containing the direct children of the div with class "section".

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

It seems like you accidentally left out the technology or language you want to use to select these elements. However, I'll provide solutions for both JavaScript and jQuery.

In JavaScript, you can use the `children` property or `querySelector` method:

```javascript
let section = document.querySelector('.section');
let children = section.children;
```

Or:

```javascript
let children = document.querySelectorAll('.section > div');
```

In jQuery, you can use the `children` method:

```javascript
let children = $('.section').children('div');
```

These will give you the direct child `div` elements of the `div` with class "section".

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

It seems like you accidentally left out the method or technology you want to use to select these elements. However, I'll provide solutions for both JavaScript and jQuery:

1. JavaScript:
```javascript
let children = document.querySelector('.section').children;
```
This will give you a HTMLCollection of direct children of the div with class "section".

2. jQuery:
```javascript
let children = $('.section').children();
```
This will give you a jQuery object containing all direct children of the div with class "section".

Remember, both of these methods will give you all direct children, not just divs. If you want to select only divs, you can modify the selectors like this:

JavaScript:
```javascript
let divChildren = document.querySelectorAll('.section > div');
```

jQuery:
```javascript
let divChildren = $('.section > div');
```

--------
