
# Post \#50709625 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50709625/)

## Link with target="_blank" and rel="noopener noreferrer" still vulnerable?

**Vote**: 271 (7/702) **Views**: 230094 (31/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-168

Created at 2018-06-05 22:08:25

Tags: `html`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I see people recommending that whenever one uses `target="_blank"` in a link to open it in a different window, they should put `rel="noopener noreferrer"`. I wonder how does this prevent me from using Developer Tools in Chrome, for example, and removing the rel attribute. Then clicking the link...

Is that an easy way to still keep the vulnerability?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The `rel="noopener noreferrer"` attribute is used to prevent a security vulnerability known as "tabnapping". This vulnerability occurs when a malicious website is able to manipulate the newly opened tab created by a link with `target="_blank"`. By adding `rel="noopener noreferrer"`, the link is prevented from accessing the `window.opener` property of the newly opened tab, which is what allows the malicious website to manipulate it.

However, you are correct that a user with access to the Developer Tools in their browser could potentially remove the `rel` attribute and still be vulnerable to tabnapping. This is why it's important to educate users on the risks of clicking on links from untrusted sources and to always be cautious when opening links in new tabs.

In addition to using `rel="noopener noreferrer"`, you can also consider using other security measures such as implementing Content Security Policy (CSP) headers on your website to further protect against tabnapping and other types of attacks.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `rel="noopener noreferrer"` attribute is used to prevent a security vulnerability known as "tabnapping". Tabnapping is a type of phishing attack where a new tab is opened with a fake login page, and the original tab is replaced with the fake page when the user switches back to it. 

The `noopener` attribute prevents the new tab from accessing the `window.opener` property of the original tab, which could be used to manipulate the original tab. The `noreferrer` attribute prevents the new tab from sending a `referrer` header to the new page, which could be used to track the user's browsing history.

While it is technically possible for someone to remove the `rel` attribute using Developer Tools, it is not a common attack vector. Additionally, removing the `rel` attribute would not necessarily make the link vulnerable to tabnapping, as the `noopener` and `noreferrer` attributes are the primary protections against this type of attack.

It is still recommended to use the `rel="noopener noreferrer"` attribute when opening links in a new tab as an additional layer of security.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The `rel="noopener noreferrer"` attribute is used to prevent a security vulnerability known as "tabnapping". This vulnerability occurs when a malicious website is able to hijack the contents of a newly opened tab that was created by a link with `target="_blank"`. The `noopener` attribute prevents the new tab from being able to access the `window.opener` property of the original tab, which could be used to manipulate the original page. The `noreferrer` attribute prevents the new tab from sending a `referrer` header to the original page, which could be used to track the user's browsing history.

While it is technically possible for someone to remove the `rel` attribute using Developer Tools, it is not a trivial task for the average user. Additionally, most users are not aware of this vulnerability and would not think to exploit it. Therefore, adding the `rel="noopener noreferrer"` attribute is still a good practice to prevent this type of attack.

--------
