
# Post \#46786986 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46786986/)

## How and where to use ::ng-deep?

**Vote**: 208 (19/702) **Views**: 380474 (11/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-158

Created at 2017-10-17 09:34:24

Tags: `css` `angular` `angular-template`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How and where can one use `::ng-deep` in Angular 4?
Actually I want to overwrite some of the CSS properties of the child components from the parent components. Moreover is it supported on IE11?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

`::ng-deep` is a deprecated feature in Angular 4 and is not recommended to be used. Instead, you can use the `::ng-deep` equivalent, which is the `::ng-deep` combinator. 

To use the `::ng-deep` combinator, you can add it to the parent component's CSS file and then target the child component's CSS class or element. For example:

```
.parent-component ::ng-deep .child-component {
  /* CSS properties to overwrite */
}
```

Note that the `::ng-deep` combinator is also deprecated and may be removed in future versions of Angular. It is recommended to use component styles and the `::ng-deep` combinator sparingly.

Regarding IE11 support, `::ng-deep` and `::ng-deep` combinator are not supported in IE11. If you need to support IE11, you can use other techniques such as encapsulating styles using ViewEncapsulation or using a global stylesheet.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

`::ng-deep` is a deprecated feature in Angular and should be avoided. Instead, you can use the `::ng-deep` alternative, which is the `::ng-deep` pseudo-class. This pseudo-class can be used to apply styles to child components from the parent component.

To use `::ng-deep`, you can add it to the CSS selector in the parent component's CSS file. For example, if you want to apply styles to a child component with the class `child-component`, you can use the following code in the parent component's CSS file:

```
:host ::ng-deep .child-component {
  /* styles to be applied to child component */
}
```

Note that `::ng-deep` is deprecated and may be removed in future versions of Angular. It is recommended to use other methods to style child components, such as using the `@Input` decorator to pass styles from the parent component to the child component.

Regarding IE11 support, `::ng-deep` is not supported in IE11. If you need to support IE11, you should use other methods to style child components.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

`::ng-deep` is a deprecated feature in Angular. It was used to apply styles to child components from the parent component. However, it is recommended to use the `::ng-deep` alternative, which is the `::ng-deep` pseudo-class. 

To use `::ng-deep`, you can add it to the parent component's CSS file and then apply the styles to the child component. For example:

```
.parent-component ::ng-deep .child-component {
  /* styles to be applied to child component */
}
```

Note that `::ng-deep` is not supported on IE11. Instead, you can use the `::ng-deep` alternative, which is the `::ng-deep` pseudo-class. However, it is recommended to use other methods such as component encapsulation or view encapsulation to style child components.

--------
