
# Post \#63986278 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63986278/)

## Vue 3 ::v-deep usage as a combinator has been deprecated. Use ::v-deep(<inner-selector>) instead

**Vote**: 35 (176/702) **Views**: 43434 (182/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-157

Created at 2020-09-21 04:40:07

Tags: `css` `vue.js` `vuejs3`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I started getting the following warning in Vue 3 with the `::v-deep` usage.
```
::v-deep usage as a combinator has been deprecated. Use ::v-deep(<inner-selector>) instead
```

The CSS looks like as follows:
```
.parent ::v-deep .child {
   ...
}
```

What's the correct way to use suggested option `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)`?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The warning message you're seeing is due to a change in how `::v-deep` is used in Vue 3. The new syntax is `::v-deep(<inner-selector>)`. 

So, you should change your CSS from:

```css
.parent ::v-deep .child {
   ...
}
```

To:

```css
.parent ::v-deep(.child) {
   ...
}
```

This new syntax is more explicit and helps to avoid potential parsing ambiguity.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The warning message you're seeing is due to a change in how `::v-deep` is used in Vue 3. In Vue 2, `::v-deep` was used as a combinator, but in Vue 3, it's used as a function.

The correct way to use `::v-deep` in Vue 3 would be to include the inner selector within the parentheses. Here's how you can modify your CSS:

```css
.parent ::v-deep(.child) {
   ...
}
```

This change was made to make the usage of `::v-deep` more consistent and predictable.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The warning you're seeing is due to a change in how `::v-deep` is used in Vue 3. It's no longer used as a combinator, but as a function. 

Your current usage:
```css
.parent ::v-deep .child {
   ...
}
```

Should be updated to:
```css
.parent ::v-deep(.child) {
   ...
}
```

In this updated usage, `.child` is the inner selector and is passed as an argument to the `::v-deep` function. This should resolve the warning you're seeing.

--------
