
# Post \#56378786 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56378786/)

## What is the use case of Styled-Components' .attrs() function?

**Vote**: 19 (269/702) **Views**: 27117 (245/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-164

Created at 2019-05-30 12:57:15

Tags: `javascript` `html` `reactjs` `styled-components`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I came across the [.attrs() function in styled components](https://www.styled-components.com/docs/basics#attaching-additional-props), but I do not understand what it does, or what it does ?
I tried to understand the example in their docs, but as far as I am concerned, I can do the exact same thing without the `attrs()` function.
Could somebody please explain this to me or give a simple example?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

The `.attrs()` function in styled-components is used to attach additional props to a component. It's a chainable method that attaches additional props to a component. It's useful when you want to have default props or derive props based on some logic.

Here's a simple example:

```jsx
const Input = styled.input.attrs(props => ({
  // we can define static props
  type: "text",

  // or we can define dynamic ones
  size: props.size || "1em",
}))`
  color: palevioletred;
  font-size: 1em;
  border: 2px solid palevioletred;
  border-radius: 3px;

  /* here we use the dynamically computed prop */
  margin: ${props => props.size};
  padding: ${props => props.size};
`;

render(
  <div>
    <Input placeholder="A small text input" size="1em" />
    <br />
    <Input placeholder="A bigger text input" size="2em" />
  </div>
);
```

In this example, we're creating an `Input` component with some default styling. We're using `.attrs()` to attach additional props to the component. In this case, we're attaching a `type` prop with a value of "text", and a `size` prop which will default to "1em" if no size prop is provided when the component is used.

The `size` prop is then used in the component's styling to set the `margin` and `padding`.

Without `.attrs()`, you would have to pass these props every time you use the component, or define default props in another way. With `.attrs()`, you can define these props directly where you define your component, which can make your code cleaner and easier to understand.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

The `.attrs()` function in styled-components is used to attach additional props or modify existing ones for a styled component. It can be useful when you want to change the style of a component based on its props or when you want to add additional props to a component.

Here is a simple example:

```jsx
const Input = styled.input.attrs(props => ({
  type: 'text',
  size: props.small ? 5 : 10,
}))`
  color: palevioletred;
  font-size: 1em;
  border: 2px solid palevioletred;
  border-radius: 3px;
  margin: 0.5em;
  padding: 0.25em 0.5em;
  ::placeholder {
    color: palevioletred;
  }
`;

// Usage
<Input small />
<Input />
```

In this example, the `Input` component has two additional props: `type` and `size`. The `type` prop is always 'text', and the `size` prop depends on whether the `small` prop is passed to the component. If `small` is true, `size` will be 5; otherwise, it will be 10.

Without the `.attrs()` function, you would have to pass these props manually every time you use the `Input` component, like so:

```jsx
<Input type="text" size={5} />
<Input type="text" size={10} />
```

So, the `.attrs()` function can make your code cleaner and more maintainable by encapsulating these prop assignments within the styled component itself.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

The `.attrs()` function in styled-components is a chainable method that allows you to attach additional props to a component. It's used when you want to have default props or derive props based on the props passed to the component.

Here's a simple example:

```jsx
const Input = styled.input.attrs(props => ({
  type: 'text',
  size: props.small ? 5 : 10,
}))`
  color: palevioletred;
  font-size: 1em;
  border: 2px solid palevioletred;
  border-radius: 3px;
  margin: 0.5em;
  padding: 0.25em 0.5em;
  ::placeholder {
    color: palevioletred;
  }
`;

// Usage
<Input placeholder="A small text input" small />
<Input placeholder="A bigger text input" />
```

In this example, the `Input` component has a `type` of 'text' by default, and a `size` that depends on whether the `small` prop is true or false. When `small` is true, `size` is 5, and when `small` is false or undefined, `size` is 10.

Without `.attrs()`, you would have to pass these props every time you use the component, like so:

```jsx
<Input type="text" size={5} placeholder="A small text input" />
<Input type="text" size={10} placeholder="A bigger text input" />
```

As you can see, `.attrs()` can make your code cleaner and more maintainable by reducing redundancy and making it easier to change the default props in one place.

--------
