
# Post \#67119992 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67119992/)

## How to access all the direct children of a div in tailwindcss?

**Vote**: 39 (159/702) **Views**: 48682 (168/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-166

Created at 2021-04-16 06:14:49

Tags: `html` `css` `tailwind-css`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I have this html:
```
<div class="section">
   <div class="header">header</div>
   <div class="content">
      <div>sub contents 1</div>              
      <div>sub contents 2</div>
   </div>
</div>
```

I want to access the direct children of div with class "section" which would be divs with class: "header" and "content".
I know with css we can do: `div.section > div`
But how to do this using ?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

You can use the `querySelectorAll()` method to select the direct children of the `div` with class "section" using the `>` selector. Here's an example:

```javascript
const sectionDiv = document.querySelector('.section');
const directChildren = sectionDiv.querySelectorAll('> div');
```

This will return a NodeList containing the direct children of the `div` with class "section". You can then loop through this NodeList to access each child element:

```javascript
directChildren.forEach(child => {
  // do something with each child element
});
```

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

You can use the `querySelectorAll` method to select the direct children of the `div` with class "section". Here's an example:

```
const sectionDiv = document.querySelector('.section');
const directChildren = sectionDiv.querySelectorAll('> div');
```

This will select all direct children of the `div` with class "section", which in this case are the `div` elements with classes "header" and "content". You can then loop through the `directChildren` NodeList to access each element individually.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

You can use the `querySelectorAll` method to select the direct children of the div with class "section" using the `>` selector. Here's an example code snippet:

```
const sectionDiv = document.querySelector('.section');
const directChildren = sectionDiv.querySelectorAll('> div');
```

This will select all direct children of the div with class "section" and store them in the `directChildren` variable. You can then loop through this variable to access each direct child individually.

--------
