
# Post \#54879588 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54879588/)

## What will happen if sourcemap is set as false in Angular

**Vote**: 30 (193/702) **Views**: 37029 (201/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-160

Created at 2019-02-26 06:28:31

Tags: `html` `node.js` `angular` `typescript` `angular-cli`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I'm new in Angular. I saw `sourcemap` in `tsconfig.json` and by default it is `"sourceMap": true`. I had few doubts and found [this link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21719562/javascript-map-files-javascript-source-maps) useful. Still I have the following doubt regarding the same.

I set `"sourceMap": false`, but couldn't find any change in the app. What will be the actual change if I set so?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

When you set `"sourceMap": false` in your `tsconfig.json` file, the TypeScript compiler will not generate source map files for your TypeScript code. Source map files are used to map the compiled JavaScript code back to the original TypeScript code during debugging. 

If you set `"sourceMap": false`, the generated JavaScript files will not have a reference to the source map file, which means that you will not be able to debug your TypeScript code directly in the browser. 

However, if you are not using a debugger or if you are using a different debugging method, you may not notice any difference in the behavior of your application. 

It is generally recommended to keep `"sourceMap": true` during development to make debugging easier, and set it to `false` when deploying your application to production to reduce the size of your application.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

When you set `"sourceMap": false` in your `tsconfig.json` file, the TypeScript compiler will not generate source map files for your TypeScript code. Source map files are used to map the compiled JavaScript code back to the original TypeScript code, which can be useful for debugging purposes. 

If you set `"sourceMap": false`, the generated JavaScript code will not have a corresponding source map file, which means that it will be harder to debug your code in the browser's developer tools. However, this can also result in smaller file sizes and faster compilation times, since the compiler doesn't have to generate the source map files.

If you didn't notice any change in your app after setting `"sourceMap": false`, it's likely because you didn't rebuild your app after making the change. Make sure to rebuild your app and check the generated JavaScript files to see if they have changed.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

When you set `"sourceMap": false` in your `tsconfig.json` file, the TypeScript compiler will not generate source map files for your TypeScript code. Source maps are files that map the compiled JavaScript code back to the original TypeScript code, making it easier to debug your code in the browser's developer tools.

If you set `"sourceMap": false`, the browser's developer tools will not be able to map the compiled JavaScript code back to the original TypeScript code, making it harder to debug your code. However, this will not affect the functionality of your Angular app.

So, if you set `"sourceMap": false`, you will not see any visible change in your app, but it may make it harder to debug your code in the browser's developer tools.

--------
