
# Post \#46786986 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46786986/)

## How and where to use ::ng-deep?

**Vote**: 208 (19/702) **Views**: 380474 (11/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-158

Created at 2017-10-17 09:34:24

Tags: `css` `angular` `angular-template`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

How and where can one use `::ng-deep` in Angular 4?
Actually I want to overwrite some of the CSS properties of the child components from the parent components. Moreover is it supported on IE11?


----------
        
## GPT4 Attempt \#0

`::ng-deep` is a pseudo-class selector used in Angular 4 and above to force a style down through the child component views. This is useful when you want to style a child component from a parent component. 

Here's an example of how you can use it:

```css
:host ::ng-deep .child-component-class {
    /* styles here will affect the child component */
    background-color: red;
}
```

In this example, the `.child-component-class` inside the child components will have a red background color. 

However, it's important to note that `::ng-deep` is deprecated and it's not the best practice to use it. Angular has no alternative for it yet, but they recommend using `:host` and `:host-context` functions for style encapsulation.

As for the IE11 support, `::ng-deep` is just a compile-time concept specific to Angular, it doesn't reflect in the final CSS. Angular compiler takes care of processing it and generating the final CSS that browsers can understand. So, yes, it is supported in IE11.

Remember, using `::ng-deep` increases the specificity of CSS rules, so use it sparingly and wisely to avoid CSS conflicts and over-specificity.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#1

`::ng-deep` is a pseudo-class selector used in Angular to force a style down through the child component views. It allows you to apply styles to elements that are in the child components, which is useful when you want to override the styles of child components from the parent component.

Here is an example of how you can use `::ng-deep`:

```css
:host ::ng-deep .child-component-class {
    /* Your styles here */
}
```

In this example, the styles inside the `{}` will be applied to the `.child-component-class` in the child component.

Please note that `::ng-deep` is deprecated and it's not the recommended way to style child components. It's better to use global styles or use `ViewEncapsulation.None` in the component decorator.

As for IE11, `::ng-deep` is not a browser feature but an Angular feature, so it should work in IE11. However, keep in mind that Angular has dropped official support for IE11 as of Angular 12.

Also, remember that `::ng-deep` is deprecated and might be removed in future versions of Angular. It's recommended to avoid its use in new projects.

--------

## GPT4 Attempt \#2

`::ng-deep` is a pseudo-class selector used in Angular to force a style down through the child component views. It allows you to apply styles to any child elements (deep elements), which is useful when you want to override the styles of child components from the parent component.

Here is an example of how to use `::ng-deep`:

```css
:host ::ng-deep .child-component-class {
  /* your styles here */
}
```

In this example, the styles will be applied to `.child-component-class` of the child components.

However, it's important to note that `::ng-deep` is deprecated and it's not a standard feature, but it still works in Angular 4 and later versions. The Angular team has not yet provided a clear alternative for `::ng-deep`, so it's still commonly used.

As for the IE11 support, `::ng-deep` is not related to the browser but to the Angular framework itself. It's a way to make the styles bypass the Shadow DOM scoping. So yes, it will work in IE11 as long as you're using Angular.

Remember to use `::ng-deep` sparingly and avoid it if possible, because it breaks the encapsulation of styles.

--------
