
# Post \#56378786 [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56378786/)

## What is the use case of Styled-Components' .attrs() function?

**Vote**: 19 (269/702) **Views**: 27117 (245/702) 

**Internal ID** \#0-2-164

Created at 2019-05-30 12:57:15

Tags: `javascript` `html` `reactjs` `styled-components`

----------

#### Metadata:

Area: `Front-end`

Language: `html` (full parsed tag list: `html`)

----------

**Notepad**


----------

I came across the [.attrs() function in styled components](https://www.styled-components.com/docs/basics#attaching-additional-props), but I do not understand what it does, or what it does ?
I tried to understand the example in their docs, but as far as I am concerned, I can do the exact same thing without the `attrs()` function.
Could somebody please explain this to me or give a simple example?


----------
        
## GPT3.5 Attempt \#0

The `.attrs()` function in styled components allows you to attach additional props to a component. It can be useful when you want to provide default props or when you want to pass props to a component that are not related to styling.

Here's a simple example:

```
import styled from 'styled-components';

const Button = styled.button.attrs({
  type: 'button',
  disabled: props => props.isLoading
})`
  background-color: ${props => props.color || 'blue'};
  color: white;
  padding: 10px;
`;

<Button isLoading color="red">Click me</Button>
```

In this example, we're creating a `Button` component using styled components. We're using the `.attrs()` function to attach two additional props to the component: `type` and `disabled`. The `type` prop is set to `'button'` by default, and the `disabled` prop is set to `true` if the `isLoading` prop is `true`.

We're also using the `color` prop to set the background color of the button. If the `color` prop is not provided, the default value of `'blue'` is used.

So when we render the `Button` component with the `isLoading` and `color` props, the resulting HTML will look like this:

```
<button type="button" disabled="disabled" style="background-color: red; color: white; padding: 10px;">Click me</button>
```

As you can see, the `type` and `disabled` props have been added to the button element, and the `color` prop has been used to set the background color.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#1

The `.attrs()` function in styled components allows you to attach additional props to a component. This can be useful when you want to provide default values for props or when you want to add additional props that are not related to styling.

Here's a simple example:

```
import styled from 'styled-components';

const Button = styled.button.attrs({
  type: 'button',
  disabled: props => props.isLoading
})`
  background-color: ${props => props.disabled ? 'gray' : 'blue'};
  color: white;
  padding: 10px;
`;

<Button isLoading={true}>Click me</Button>
```

In this example, we're creating a styled button component with default props of `type: 'button'`. We're also using the `.attrs()` function to add a `disabled` prop that is based on the `isLoading` prop. If `isLoading` is true, then `disabled` will also be true.

In the styled component's CSS, we're using the `disabled` prop to determine the background color of the button. If `disabled` is true, then the background color will be gray, otherwise it will be blue.

So, in summary, the `.attrs()` function allows you to add additional props to a styled component, which can be useful for providing default values or adding props that are not related to styling.

--------

## GPT3.5 Attempt \#2

The `.attrs()` function in styled components allows you to attach additional props to a styled component. This can be useful when you want to provide default values for props or when you want to add props that are not related to styling.

Here's a simple example:

```
import styled from 'styled-components';

const Button = styled.button.attrs({
  type: 'button',
  disabled: props => props.isLoading
})`
  background-color: ${props => props.disabled ? 'gray' : 'blue'};
  color: white;
  padding: 10px;
`;

<Button isLoading={true}>Click me</Button>
```

In this example, we're creating a `Button` component using styled components. We're using the `.attrs()` function to attach two additional props to the component: `type` and `disabled`. The `type` prop is set to `'button'` by default, and the `disabled` prop is set to `true` if the `isLoading` prop is `true`.

In the styling of the component, we're using the `disabled` prop to determine the background color of the button. If `disabled` is `true`, the background color is gray, otherwise it's blue.

So in summary, the `.attrs()` function allows you to attach additional props to a styled component, which can be useful for providing default values or adding props that are not related to styling.

--------
